
          Full text of "Dope, Inc. Britain Opium War against the US (1978).pdf  Version 2"
        

I 



Britain's Opium War 'against the US. 



w 



stftSfr" 



\*. 





■I 

i 
1 



■ 



DOPE, INC. 

Britain's Opium War Against the U.S 



- 



by a U.S. Labor Party 

Investigating Team 

directed by 

Konstandinos Kalimtgis 

David Goldman 

Jeffrey Steinberg 



The New Benjamin Franklin House 

Publishing Company, Inc. 

New York, New York 

1978 




1- A victim of Britain's Opium War against the U.S. 



1 



Contents 



Published in the United Stales by The New Benjamin Franklin House 
Publishing Company 

Copyright '$ 1978 by Konstandinos Kalimtgis, David Goldman, and Jef- 
frey Steinberg 
Alt rights reserved. 

t-'or information address the publisher: 

The New Benjamin Franklin House Publishing Company, Inc. 

304 West 3KLh Street, 5th floor 

New York, New York 10019 

N. Spannaus, Editor-in-Chief; L. rrommer. Editor; P. Seawell, Designer; 
A. Y»c, Cover Design; D. Yue and V. Berg, Graphics Editors. 

Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data 

Kalimiflis, Konstandinos. 

Dope, Inc.. Britain's Opium War against the United States 

Includes index. 
I . Narcotics, Control of — Great Britain. 2. Narcotics, Control of. 3. Drug 
abuse — United States. 4. Narcotics habit — United States. I. Steinberg, 
Jeffrey, joint author. 11. Goldman, David, 1951- joint author. III. United 
States Labor Party, IV. Title. HV5850.G7K34 364. 1'57*0941 78- 
26712 
ISBN; 0-933488-00-9 

Printed in the Lfnited States of America 
First Printing, December, 1978 
Second Printing, February, 1979 



Dedication iii 
Acknowledgments v 
Introduction 1 
Parti: History 7 

Introduction 9 

1. Britain's First Opium Wars 12 

2. Palmer ston's Fifth Column, USA 25 

3. Britain's "Noble Experiment" 43 

Part II: How the Drug Empire Works 57 

Introduction 5D 

1 . Banking and the World's Biggest Business 63 

2. From Opium to Dirty Money 78 

3. How the Drug Trade is Financed 83 

4. Britain's Gold and Dirty Diamond Operations 92 

5. Hong Kong: The World's Drug Capital 106 

6. The Peking Connection 113 

7. How the Royal Institute of International Affairs 
Runs Drugs and Dirty Money 139 

8. Canada: North America's Hong Kong 160 

9. All in the Family; The Real Syndicate 175 

Part III: Organized Crime 261 

Introduction 263 

1 . The Bronfman Gang 269 

2. The Kennedys: Organized Crime in the Government 239 

3. Britain's Assassination Bureau: Permindex 301 

4. Permindex Unveiled : Resorts International Intertel 321 

5. The Jacobs Family's Emprise: Sports and Crime 330 

6. The Philadelphia Story 344 



Part IV: Creating the Market: 
The British Origins of the Counterculture 

PartV: The Drug Lobby; 
The Criminals Come Out in the Open 381 

Epilogue 393 

Index 396 



3fil 



Illustrations 



Introduction 
5 Figure 1. The Rate of Increase in Marijuana Use in the USA 

Parti 
24 Figure 1. Britain's Opium War Against China, 1 $20-1880 



Part II 
SI Figure 1. Opium. The Golden Triangle 
89 Figure 2. The Hongkong and Shanghai Control of Expatriate 

Drug Trade 
98 Figure 3. Illegal Gold Flows 
101 Figured. British Gold and Diamond Syndicate 
124 Figure 5. Hong Kong and Peking: Sharing the Drug Take 
154 Figure 6. London's Royal Institute for International Affairs: 

Drugs and Dirty Money 
170 Figure 7. Drug Running— The Canadian Connection 
223 The Dynasty of Robert Bruce: The Drug Family Tree 

Part III 
315 Figure 1, Dope, Inc. Assassination Bureau 



Dedication 



Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. 
New York City 

October 18, 1978 

It is with proper pride that we dedicate this book to the often- 
unsung U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officers who have 
so often, so obscurely, died or languished in undeserved impris- 
onment in the silent war of the United States against the British 
monarchy's illegal drug traffic into our nation. 

This book is published with special thanks to those intelligence 
and law enforcement officials who have given us such extraordi- 
nary assistance in cross-checking facts in putting the story to- 
gether. These have included officials not only in the USA, but our 
nation's French ally, and also patriots in Canada embittered 
against what the Bronf mans and others have done to their nation 

and our own. 

It is no exaggeration to sura up the situation thus: the only 
proper comparison for today's British drug traffic into the USA is 
the British monarchy's 19th century Opium Wars against China. 
There is more than a parallel. The same HongShang and other 
banking interests that developed their wealth in the China opium 
trade are involved in the financial side of the traffic against the 
USA — aided by those leading elements of the Zionist Lobby 
which have controlled organized crime in the USA and the Carib- 
bean since the early 1920s. 

This is a calculated form of political warfare against the USA 
by the British monarchy. Not only are the London-centered Cana- 
dian, Hong Kong, Singapore, and British West Indies financial in- 



iil 




10. A Chinese-American opium den (by artist Winslow Homer) as depicted in 
Harpers. 1874 



7- 



.' 



terests involved in pulling tens of billions out of the USA — our 
biggest source of balance-of-payments losses — but this is a pre- 
calculated political warfare. The evil British intelligence exec- 
utive — and head of the Aristotle Society — Bertrand Russell pro- 
posed this use of drugs as political subversion back during the 
1920s. Among Russell's most prominent collaborators in this 
effort was Aldous Huxley, coordinator of the 1960s introduction of 
psychedelic substances to U.S. youth. 

The fight against illegal drugs and against the evil forces of 
"decriminalization" is nothing less than a war against Britain, to 
the purpose of saving our youth and our nation from the destruc- 
tion the British monarchy has projected for us. 



Acknowledgments 



Dope. Inc. was commissioned in September 1978 by U.S. Labor 
Party National Chairman Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr., and was 
produced under his direction. At that time the Labor Party 
launched an international campaign against organized crime and 
drug traffic. As LaRouche has pointed out numerous times in the 
pages of the Labor Party's newspaper. New Solidarity, the forces 
that run the drug trade are the same forces that are now 
unleashing every capability — including scenarios for thermo- 
nuclear war — to halt the emergence of a new monetary system 
represented by the July 6 establishment of the European 
Monetary System in Bremen, West Germany, a system founded 
on the principles elaborated by LaRouche in his 1975 proposal for 
an International Development Bank. An October 1978 statement 
issued by LaRouche— "A National Strategy to Control Crime" — 
formed the kernel of this book. 

This hook is the product of a 100-person combined research 
team of the U.S. Labor Party in New York City, the Mexican 
Labor Party in Mexico City, and the European Labor Party in 
Wiesbaden, West Germany. The efforts of this team, since its 
founding in January 1974 under the direction of Lyndon 
LaRouche, drew the circle tighter around the perpetrators of 
narcotics traffic over a period of years- The authors particularly 
acknowledge the efforts of Marilyn James, Richard Schulman, 
and Alfred Ross, whose research supplied the core of this book, 
and the contributions of Kathy Burdman, Scott Thompson, Paul 
Goldstein, Ha raid Hermann, Joseph Brewda, Roger Moore, 
Michelle Steinberg, Peter Wyer, Karen Steinherz, and Peter 
Ennis. Our appreciation also goes to Linda Frommer, the Book's 



iv 




7. William Jardine 

8. James Matheson 

9. An artist's depiction of the First Opium War 






V 



editor, who accomplished the final stage of the manuscript's 
completion. 

The authors are unfortunately unable to thank by name the 
many former and currently serving law enforcement officers of 
several nations who took the greatest risk in coming forward with 
information and experience to indict the most dangerous enemy 
of all. 



Introduction 



America is at war. For the first time since 1865, the battle- 
ground is not abroad, but on the streets and schools of American 
cities. Casualties registered in the course of the conflict are 
incomparably higher than at any other time in American history. 
We are fighting for our lives, and in the most literal sense, for the 
lives of our children. Until now, wc have been losing. 

The enemy's most deadly weapon is dope. 

Unlike most wars, which force both combatants deeply into 
debt, in this undeclared war the offensive power becomes 
wealthier and wealthier, while the stupefied victim becomes 
impoverished. In return for destroying the minds, and in many 
cases the lives, of the 48 million Americans hit by this weapon, 
the enemy exacts a payment of $50 billion in retail drug sales 
alone in the United States, and $200 billion worldwide. That $200 
billion, robbed from the world's productive sector, is the slush 
fund for everything evil in the world, including political 
terrorism — and including the murder of American Presidents. 

There is not a parent, thinking over the destruction of a child. 
who really believes that drug abuse is a self-inflicted crime. 
Americans, no matter what else they have learned to tolerate, 
believe that the advancement of the next generation is part of the 
way things should be. If an entire generation of Americans is in 
jeopardy of being lost, then someone has done this to them. 

We will tell you precisely who has done this — who has the 
ability to control the flow of dope from the mountains of the Far 
East and the valleys of Colombia to American high schools, who 
controls the banks which launder the $200 billion in take, who 
puppeteers the crime syndicates in charge of retail distribution, 



1 




13 




2 



DOPE, INC. 



INTRODUCTION 



3 



and who corrupts our political life- It is the same people against 
whom wc fought the American Revolution, who set up the world 
opium trade a century and a half ago, and who run it today: the 
aristocratic and banking oligarchy of Great Britain. 

Look into the motionless stupor of the mind of a youth who has 
been sapped and destroyed by addiction. Incapable of reason, 
incapable of thought, today's addicted youth lives for only one 
thing: his "fix," his "high.* 1 Then consider the body count of 
Britain's Opium War against the United States: Over 48 million 
Americans, mostly between theages of 12 and 25 are officially 
known by the Drug Enforcement Administration to be frequent 
users of heroin, cocaine, and marijuana. Over one-fourth of the 
American people are severely wounded or dead in a war the 
country has not yet mobilized to fight. 

The Drug Enforcement Administration has released these 
statistics on drug use by Americans: 

Heroin 

500,000 daily users (other sources place this hardcore addict 

figure at between 750.000 and 1 mil I ton) 

4 . 000,000 occasional users 

Cocaine 

575,000 users between the ages of 12-1 7 
4,500,000 users between the agesot 18-25 
1 ,000,000 users over the age of 25 



Marijuana 

11,000,000 
24,000,000 



daily users 

occasional users 



These figures do not include that portion of the population 
addicted to amphetamines, barbiturates, and hallucinoRens. This 
figure alone according to recent reports from the National 
Institute of Drug Abuse constituted between 12 and 25 percent of 
all patients admitted to federally funded drug clinics during 1977. 
The last census taken of drug abuse in 1974, issued as a Report to 
the President, calculated conservatively that close to one and a 
half million Americans had "gotten into trouble"— been 



arrested, treated, or hospitalized — through the use of amphet- 
amines or barbiturates. When calculated for only youth of high 
school age, the rate of amphetamine and barbiturate use was 
four times as great as that of the adult population. 

Since the inauguration of Jimmy Carter, whole categories of 
drug abuse are no longer monitored. The computer system of the 
Drug Enforcement Administration has been shut down. Behind 
that action is the grim fact that many of Mr. Carter's domestic 
policy advisors are on record as being committed to decrimin- 
alization of deadly drugs — beginning with marijuana. If such 
policies go through, statistics will be meaningless: drug abuse 
will treble within months of legalization. The $200 billion take for 
the British drug traders will climb to $300 billion. 

■ 

The world's biggest business 

How is the $200 billion monstrosity of world drug revenues 
hidden? In the most important way, it is not. The flow of 
narcotics and dirty money is conducted in the full light of day, the 
same way rum-running was conducted during Prohibition. Only 
misdirection prevents the public from understanding who the 
enemy is. Massive crimes are not hidden under cover of 
darkness, but under the cover of an effective lie. The operative lie 
in this case is ' l Free Enterprise. " 

When Sam Bronfman sold his rotgut to American mobsters, 
supplied by the old British distillers and financed by the old 
British banks, it was a matter of free enterprise: what the mob 
did with it after it crossed the American border was of no concern 
to him. When Meyer Lansky made his first heroin connection 
With Britain's dope-trading Keswick family in Shanghai in 1920, 
the sale was legal and in the light of day; what the mob did with 
the heroin later was not the responsibility of Britain's Far East 
traders. 

Now. when the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank "launders" the 
$10 billion annual flow of narcotics money through Hong Kong, is 
it anything but a matter of "free enterprise" where their deposits 
come from and their loans go? When the Bronfmans in Canada 




11. Giuseppe Mazzini 

12. Chinese "coolies" — opium smokers 
— at work on U.S. railroad 

13. Lehman Bros. (Lehman & Durr) office 
in Montgomery, Alabama shortly after 
the Civil War; the same building 
houses The Oddfellows secret 

society 

14. Lincoln's assassination by John 
Wilkes Booth, a British agent (artist's 
depiction) 




12 



w 



! ■ 



4 DOPE, INC. 

and the Jacobs family of Buffalo finance organized crime, is it 
anything more than a "free enterprise" business relationship? 
The entire army of the enemy was built, and functions, under the 

open vi e w of the publ i c . 

In fact, the chain of interlocking "free enterprise*' relation- 
ships that describes the ftow of drugs and dirty money in and out 
of the United States only masks the type of conspiracies that 
Americans see not in pulp thrillers, but in nightmares. We will 
uncover these conspiracies, the spider's web of the British 
monarchy — the Italian-surname organized crime syndicates, 
London's Zionist-cover terrorist operation, the secrets of 
Peking's dope-running foreign intelligence organization. We will 
trace them all back to their common "mother," the great 
aristocratic families of Britain. 

With this report, you will see your enemy as he is, behind the 
veils of misdirection, past the Hollywood parodies of organized 
crime. We are now in sight of the day when we will turn the tide 
against the dope warriors of Great Britain — by striking at the 
head of the beast. 



Thousands 

Of DOUrlOS 



20CO 



1800 



1600 



1400 



1200 



1QQQ 



aoc 



6QD 



400 



200 



C 




71 



/3 



74 



Year 



Kg. 1 
The Rate of Increase in Marijuana Use in the US A 

The above graph of confiscations of marijuana by federal enforcement agen- 
cies provides only a rough haromclcr of the accelerated increase of mari- 
juana smuggling into and use in the USA between 1&69 and 1974. As is com- 
mon knowledge, from 1&74 to the present, marijuana use has gone up at a 
rate whose acceleration dwarfs that depicted above. In the past year alone, 
"drug decriminalization" campaigning by British agents-of-influence in the 
White House, and governors and Congressmen in the hip-pockets of Edgar 
Bronfman and Meyer Lansky, has caused marijuana use to increase at an 

astronomical rate. 




17. A drug-stand in the open market place. Vientiane. Laos (1967) 



A 

■ :' 

".:■■ 



PARTI 

History 

of Britain's 
First Opium Wars 



i 



; I 



aL. 




15 




15. A mule-team convoy carrying opium through northern Thailand (1967) 

16. Hillsides in northern Thailand devastated by the planting of opium pdppies 



7 



> 



h 

> v 



■ 



i 

!■■'■ 



Introduction 



This is the setting for what follows below; narcotics are 
pouring in from abroad through ft well-organized, efficient group 
of smugglers. One-fifth of the population abuses drugs, an 
epidemic surpassing any known since the Great Plagues. Not 
only the poor, but the wealthy and the children of the wealthy 
have succumbed. Within the nation, organized crime displays its 
drug profits without shame, ruling local governments, and 
threatening the integrity even of national government. None of 
their opponents is safe from assassins, not even the chief of state- 
Law enforcement is in shambles. The moral fiber of the nation 
has deteriorated past the danger point. 

And one* of the leading dope-traffickers writes to his superiors 
abroad. "As long as this country maintains its drug traffic, there 
is not the slightest possibility that it will ever become a military 
threat, since the habit saps the vitality of the nation." (1) 

The description is familiar, but we are not writing of America 
in 1978. but China in 1B36, on the eve of the first Opium War, when 
Great Britain landed troops to compel China to ingest the poison 
distributed by British merchants. 



*■;.. 




19. Chinese expatriate gold-dealer (Woo Hong-fai). Hong Kong, 1977 

20. Udorn Tejapaibul, Chairman, Bangkok Metropolitan Bank 



£ 



10 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



11 



An American President lies dead of an assassin's bullet. 
Corrupt members of the Cabinet cover the tracks leading to a 
conspiracy, including the leading narcotics mobs, ethnic-based 
secret societies, and a foreign government. The public docs not 
believe that the assassin acted alone, but the weight of the cover- 
up, the silence of the leading press, and the deaths of witnesses 
blur the trail from the public's view. 

Was that the death of John F. Kennedy? It was also the death of 
Abraham Lincoln. 

During the last century, British finance protected by British 
guns controlled the world narcotics traffic. The names of the 
families and institutions are known to the history student: 
Matheson, Keswick, Swire, Dent. Baring, and Rothschild; 
Jardine Matheson, the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, the 
Chartered Bank, the Peninsular and Orient Steam Navigation 
Company. Britain's array of intelligence fronts ran a worldwide 
assassination bureau, operating through occult secret societies: 
the Order of Zion, Mazzini's Mafia, the "Triads" or Societies of 

Heaven in China. 

Paging back over the records of the narcotics traffic and its 
wake of corruption and murder, the most uncanny feature of the 
opium-based Pax Britannica is how shamelessly, how publicly 
the dope-runners operated. Opium trading, for the British, was 
not a sordid backstreet business, but an honored instrument of 
state policy, the mainstay of the ExcheQuer, the subject of 
encomia from Britain's leading apostles of "Free Trade" — 
Adam Smith. David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus. James Mill, and 
John Stuart Mill. The poisoning of China, and later the post-Civil 
War United States, did not lead to prison but to peerages. Great 
sectors of the Far East became devoted to the growing of the 
opium poppy, to the exclusion of food crops, to the extent that 
scores of millions of people depended utterly on the growing, 
distribution and consumption of drugs. 

The Kes wicks. Dents, Swires and Barings still control the 
world flow of opiates from their stronghold in the British Crown 
Colony of Hong Kong. Jardine Matheson, the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation, and the Peninsular and Orient 
Steam Navigation Company still control the channels of 



production and distribution of the drugs from the Far East, 
through the British dominion of Canada, into the United States. 
By an uninterrupted chain of succession, the descendants of the 
Triads, the Mafia, and the Order of Zion still promote drug 
traffic, dirty money transfers, political corruption, and an 
Assassination Bureau even more awesome than the conspiracy 
that claimed Abraham Lincoln's life. Of course, the drug 
revenues of this machine are no longer tallied in the published 
accounts of the British Exchequer. But the leading installations 
of the drug traffic are no more hidden than they were a hundred 
years ago. From the Crown Colony of Hong Kong, the 
"HongShang" Bank does what the Kes wicks set it up to do: 
provide centralized rediscounting facilities for the financing of 
the drug trade. Even the surnames of senior management are the 
same. 

Even today, the grand old names of Prohibition liquor and 
dope-running rouse the deep awareness of Americans: 
Bronfman, Kennedy, Lansky. Are the denizens of the India opium 
trade, of the Prohibition mob, imprisoned in the history books and 
behind the movie screen? Not infrequently, the observer feels a 
momentary lapse in time, and sees not a history book, but the 
morning newspaper, not the late-night movie, but the evening 
television newscast. 

The story wc have to tell happened twice. It first happened to 
China, and now it is happening to the United States. Emphasizing 
that neither the names nor the hangouts of the criminals have 
changed, we begin by telling how it happened the first time. 




18 



18. Chin Sophonpanich. Chairman, with other directors of the Bank of Bangkok 



1 1 
I 



li- 






X 



HISTORY 



13 



1 



1 1 



1 1 



ij.i 



Britain's First Opium Wars 



Prom 1715. when the British East India Company opened up its 
first Far East office in the Chinese port city of Canton, it has been 
official British Crown policy to foster mass-scale drag addiction 
against targeted foreign populations in order to impose a state of 
enforced backwardness and degradation, thereby maintaining 
British political control and looting rights. While the methods 
through which the British have conducted this Opium War policy 
have shifted over the intervening 260 years, the commitment to 
the proliferation of mind-destroying drugs has been unswerving. 

It was the British Crown's categorical opposition to and hatred 
for scientific and technological progress that led it to adopt an 
Opium War policy during the last decade of the 18th century. 
Having stifled the development of domestic manufacturing 
during the previous century, the British Crown found its treasury 
rapidly being drained of silver reserves — the only payment the 
Chinese Emperor would accept in exchange for silk, tea, and 
other commodities Britain imported. To reverse the silver 
exodus, which threatened to collapse the financial underpinnings 



of the British Empire, King George HI mandated the East India 
Company to begin shipping large Quantities of opium from 
Bengal in the British Crown Colony of India into China. The dual 
objective was to favorably alter the balance of-payments deficit 
and to foster drug addiction among China's mandarin class. By 
the time of the American Revolution, East India Company opium 
trafficking into China was officially reported to be at a scale 2U 
times the absolute limit of opium required for medical and 
related use. 

In a very direct sense, the Founding Fathers of the United 
States fought the American Revolution against the British 
Crown's opium policy. 

* East India Company intelligence operative Adam Smith's 
Wealth of Nations spelled out the colonial looting policy against 
which the Founding Fathers rebelled. In that same document — 
as part of the same scheme to defend the Empire — Smith 
advocated a massive increase of East India Company opium 
exporting into China. (2) 

* The dirty money culled from that opium trade made up a 
sizable portion of the war chest that financed Britain's 
deployment of Hessian mercenaries into North America to 
attempt to crush the rebellion. 

* The "Secret Committee" of the East India Company — under 
the direction of Lord Shelburne and company chairman George 
Baring — coordinated British secret intelligence's campaign of 
subversion and economic warfare against the newly constituted 
American republic even before the ink had dried on the Treaty of 
Paris (1783). (3) 

After the American Revolution, Smith's call for a dramatic 
increase in opium exporting into China was enacted with a 
vengeance. From 1801 to 1820, official British figures placed the 
opium trade at approximately 5,0flf) chests per year. By the late 
1820s. a network of trading companies operating under overall 
East India Company "market control" was founded to facilitate 
the trade. Some of these British opium houses, including the 
biggest, Jardine Mathcson &Co. Ltd., maintain an active hand in 
Far East heroin trafficking to this day. 

The establishment of these trading companies — the core of 



12 








*7. 





V ■ 



hartered;bamk 



"i v 



* 



■■•'■ 

IIHi 




:-■. 



THE H', 




. 






'/ 



JP 



• "* 1769207 JO 

321253 - t* JP321253 

.#tr*f/Yt '"/'■ 



&?ti 



/<rt ■ 






' ■- ■ 

atit 



.*- 



HOKG K0N6 3W0CT0BEft, 1973. 

y caw* «*■ 7*e B3**c or tn*terc*5 

>f2l- 



• 






,( 







^"fWW 



-TWENTY 



? 



/W-< 



.-' 



i 



»/• 



i- 

li> 
fll 






14 



DOPE, INC. 



H' 






ill! 



Britain's Opium War infrastructure — fostered an epidemic- 
scale increase in opium trafficking into China. By 1830-31, the 
number of chests of opium brought into China increased fourfold 
to 18,956 chests. In 1836, the figure exceeded 30,000 chests. In 
financial terms, trade figures made available by both the British 
and Chinese governments showed that between 1829-1840. a total 
of 7 million silver dollars entered China, while 56 million silver 
dollars were sucked out by the soaring opium trade. (4) 

When the Chinese Emperor, confronted by a galloping drug 
addiction crisis, tried to crack down on the British trading 
companies and their dope smugglers, the British Crown went to 

war. 

In 183ft, the Chinese Emperor appointed Lin Tse-hsu 
Commissioner of Canton to lead a campaign against opium. Lin 
launched a serious crackdown against the Triad gangs sponsored 
by the British trading companies to smuggle the drugs out of the 
"Factory" area into the pores of the communities. The Triad 
Society, also known as the "Society of Heaven and Earth," was a 
century-old feudalist religious cult that had been suppressed by 
the Manchu Dynasty for its often violent opposition to the govern- 
ment's reform programs. The Triad group in Canton was profiled 
and cultivated by Jesuit and Church of England missionaries and 
recruited into the East India Company's opium trade by the early 
19lh century. (5) 

When Lin moved to arrest one of the British nationals 
employed through the opium merchant houses, Crown 
Com mi ssioner Capt. Charles Elliot intervened to protect the drug 
smuggler with Her Majesty's fleet. And when Lin responded by 
laying siege to the factory warehouses holding the tea shipments 
about to sail for Britain until the merchants turned over their 
opium stockpiles, Elliot assured the British drug pushers that the 
Crown would take full responsibility for covering their losses. 

The British Crown had its "casus belli." Matheson of the opium 
house Jardine Matheson joyously wrote his partner Jardine — 
then in London, conferring with Prime Minister Palmerston on 
how to pursue the pending war with China : 

. . .the Chinese have fallen into the snare of rendering 



HISTORY 1; 

themselves directly tiable to the Crown. To a close 
observer, it would seem as if the whole of Elliot's career 
was expressly designed to lead on the Chinese to commit 
themselves, and produce a collision. 

Matheson concluded the correspondence: "I suppose war with 
China will bfc the next step." (6) 

Indeed, on October 13. 1839, Palmerston sent a secret dispatch 
to Elliot in Canton informing him that an expeditionary force 
proceeding from India could be expected to reach Canton by 
March, 1S4D. In a follow-up secre.t dispatch dated November 23, 
Palmerston provided detailed instructions on how Elliot was to 
proceed with negotiations with the Chinese — once they had been 
defeated by the British fleet. 

Palmerston's second dispatch was, in fact, modeled on a 
memorandum authored by Jardine dated October 26, 1839, in 
which the opium pusher demanded: 1) full legalization of opium 
trade into China; 2) compensation for the opium stockpiles 
confiscated by I.in to the tune of £2 million; and 3) territorial 
sovereignty for the British Crown over several designated off- 
shore islands. In a simultaneous memorandum to the Prime 
Minister, Jardine placed J&M's entire opium fleet at the disposal 
of the Crown to pursue war against China. (?) 

The Chinese forces, decimated by ten years of rampant opium 
addiction within the Imperial Army, proved no match for the 
British. 

The British fleet arrived in force and laid siege in June of 1840. 
While it encountered difficulties in Canton, its threat to the 
northern cities, particularly Nanking, forced the Emperor to 
terms. Painfully aware that any prolonged conflict would merely 
strengthen Britain's bargaining position, he petitioned for a 
treaty ending the war. 

When Elliot forwarded to Palmerston a draft Treaty of Chuenpi 
in 1841, the Prime Minister rejected it out of hand, replying. 
"After all, our naval power is so strong that we can tell the 
Emperor what we mean to hold, rather than what he should say 
he would cede." Palmerston ordered Elliot to demand 
"admission of opium into China as an article of lawful 




21. The Crown Colony of Hong Kong, financial center of the drug trade 

22. Brian Slevin. Hong Kong Chief of Police 

23. M.G.R. Sandberg. Chairman. The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank 

24. The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank building 

25. Hongkong and Shanghai Bank emblem 

26. Current notes issued by the Hongkong and Shanghai and the Standard 
Chartered banks in Hong Kong; at bottom, an 1879 issue of the Anglo-Egyp- 
tian Bank (Barclays) 



c 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



17 



*i 



commerce." increased indemnity payment, and British access to 
several additional Chinese ports. (8) 

The Treaty of Nanking, signed in 1842, brought the British 
Crown an incredible sum of $21 million in silver — as well as 
extraterritorial cootrol over the "free port" of Hong Kong — 
which to this day is the capital of Britain's global drug-running. 

The First Opium War defined the proliferation of and 
profiteering from mind-destroying drugs as a cornerstone of 
British Imperial policy. Anyone who doubts this fact need only 
consider this policy statement issued by Lord Palmerston in a 
January 1841 communique to Lord Auckland, then Governor 
General of India: 

The rivalship of European manufactures is fast excluding 
our productions from the markets of Europe, and we must 
unremittingly endeavor to find in other parts of the world 
new vents for our industry (i.e., opium — ed.). . . If we 
succeed in our China expedition, Abyssina, Arabia, the 
countries of the Indus and the new markets of China will at 
no distant period give us a most important extension to the 
range of our foreign commerce. . , . (9) 

It is appropriate to conclude this summary profile of Britain's 
first Opium War by quoting from the 15th edition of the 
Encyclopedia Britsmnica, published in 1977. What the brief 
biographical sketch of Lin Tse-hsu — the leader of the Chinese 
Emperor's fight to defeat British drugging of the Chinese 
population — makes clear to the intelligent reader is that British 
policy to this day has not changed one degree: 

... he (Lin— ed.) did not comprehend the significance of 
the British demands for free trade and international 
equality, which were based on their concept of a 
commercial empire. This concept was a radical challenge 
to the Chinese world order, which knew only an empire and 
subject peoples. , . . Jn a famous letter to Queen Victoria, 
written when he arrived in Canton, Lin aked if she would 
allow the importation of such a poisonous substance into 



her own country, and requested her to forbid her subjects 
to bring it into his. Lin relied on aggressive moral tone: 
meanwhile proceeding relentlessly against British 
merchants, in a manner that could only insult their 
government. 

Britain's opium diplomacy 

Not a dozen years would pass from the signing of the Treaty of 
Nanking before the British Crown would precipitate its second 
Opium War offensive against China, with similar disastrous 
consequences for the Chinese and with similar monumental 
profits for London's drug-pushers. Out of the second Opium War 
(1858-1860), the British merchant banks and trading companies 
established the Hongkong & Shanghai Corporation, which to this 
day serves as the centra] clearinghouse for all Par Eastern 
financial transactions relating to the black market in opium and 
its heroin derivative. 

Furthermore, with the joint British-French siege of Peking 
during October 1860, the British completed the process of opening 
up all of China. Lord Palmerston, the High Priest of the Scottish 
Rites, had returned to the Prime Ministership in June 1859 to 
launch the second war and thereby fulfill the "open China" policy 
he had outlined 20 years earlier. 

Like the 1840 invasion of Canton, the second Opium War was an 
act of British imperial aggression — launched on the basis of the 
first flimsy pretext that occurred. Just prior to his ordering of a 
northern campaign against Peking (which permitted the British 
to maintain uninterrupted opium trafficking even while a state of 
war was underway), Lord Palmerston wrote to his close 
collaborator Foreign Secretary Lord John Russell (grandfather 
and guardian of the evil Lord Bertrand Russell). "We must in 
some way or other make the Chinese repent of the outrage," 
wrote Palmerston, referring to the defeat suffered by a joint 
British-French expeditionary force at Taku Forts in June 1859. 
The expeditionary fleet, acting on orders to seize the forts, had 
run aground in the mud-bogged harbor and several hundred 




33 



27. Henry Keswick. Sr.. Managing Director, Jardine Matheson 

28. Sir Mark Turner. Chairman Rio Tinto Zinc, and Governing Council, the Royal 
Institute of International Affairs 

29. John Keswick. Director, Matheson and Co. 

30. David Newbigging. Managing Director. Jardine Matheson 

31 . Bars of gold distributed by Mocatta Metals 

32. Harry Oppenheimer 

33. Diamonds sorted by quality, shape and color 



WW 



16 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



19 



3 
ij' 

i \ 

ii 



ill 
J- 



M 



ii 



iiU 



I ! 



1 1 

I ! ■ 
I ■ * 

i 

■i I 
i i 



sailors attempting to wade to shore through the mud were either 
killed or captured. "We might send a military-naval force to 
attack and occupy Peking," Palmerston continued. (10) 
Following Palmcrston's lead. The Times of London let loose a 
bloodcurdling propaganda campaign : 

England, with France, or England without France if 
necessary. . . shall teach such a lesson to these perfidious 
hordes that the name of Europe will hereafter be a pass- 
port of fear, if it cannot be of love throughout their 
land. (11) 

In October 1860 the joint British-French expeditionary force 
laid siege to Peking. The city fell within a day with almost no 
resistance. Despite French protests* British commander Lord 
Elgin ordered the temples and other sacred shrines in the city 
sacked and burned to the ground — as a show of Britain's 
absolute contempt for the Chinese. 

Within four years of the signing of the Treaty of Tientsin 
(October 25. 1860). Britain was in control of seven eighths of the 
vastly expanded trade into China. This trade amounted to over 
£20 million in 1864 alone. Over the next 20 years, the total opium 
export from India — the overwhelming majority of which was 
still funneled into China — skyrocketed from 58.681 chests in 1860 
to 195,508 chests in 1880. (12) 

Furthermore, the opening of China prompted the British opium 
traders to diversify into "Legitimate business." The opium firms 
opened cotton traffic into China — to the point that cotton cloth 
shipments into China (like the opium shipments) quadrupled 
from 1856-1880 from 115 million yards of cloth to 448 million yards. 

The London opium traffickers' diversification into the cotton 
trade at the close of the second Opium War intersected with the 
same London oligarchy's shifting of its principal strategic policy 
focus to the destruction of the United States — beginning with the 
efforts to wreck the republic via the British-sponsored Civil War. 
The massive expansion of cotton exporting was undertaken with 
full knowledge that U.S. cotton production — centered in the 



Deep South slavocracy — would be severely disrupted with the 

pending "civil war" destahilization in North America- (13) 

The slave and cotton trade In the South was run to a significant 
degree by the same Scottish-based families that also ran the 
opium traffic in the orient. The Sutherland family, which was one 
of the largest slave and cotton traders in the South, were first 
cousins of the Matheson family of Jardine Matheson. The 
Barings, who founded the Peninsular & Orient Steamship Line 
heavily involved in the opium trade, had been the largest 
investors in U.S. clipper shipping from the time of the American 
Revolution. The Rothschild* family as well as their later "Our 
Crowd" New York Jewish banking cousins, the Lehmans of 
Lehman Bros., all made their initial entry into the United States 
through the pre-Civil War cotton and slave trade- 
in the case of the U.S. Civil War. the British opium traffickers 
bet on the loser. By the mid-1 860s, cotton goods from the southern 
United States were back on the international markets, triggering 
waves of bankruptcies among London speculators who bet on 
dramatic inflation in the prices of Indian and Egyptian cotton. As 
in the period immediately following Britain's loss of its American 
colonies during 1776-87, the oligarchy turned to an expanded 
opium traffic to paste over the losses. 

To facilitate the planned expansion of the opium trade, the 
British banking and merchant circle founded the Hongkong & 
Shanghai Corporation in 18G4. Almost .simultaneously, the 
Matheson family founded Rio Tinto (now Rio Tinto Zinc) , a tin 
mining venture in Spain which soon began shipping these ores as 
a method of payment for the opium. 

Who founded the Hongkong and Shanghai Corporation? The 
same circle of merchant banking, trading, and shipping families 
— centered around the British monarchy — who opened the East 
India Company's opium trade as an instrument of British state 
policy during the previous century. 

The following points summarize British Opium War policy 
against China through the 19th century: 

* Open sponsorship of mass-scale opium addiction of targeted 
colonial and neocolonial populations by the British Crown ; 



20 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



21 



ffl* 

Mi 

'",£ i 
■i ■' 



l'\ i 



!■' ! 



i 1 

(•' 
|| 

-I' 

1 I; 
{ ■ 



i 



i - 



* Willingness of Her Majesty's government to deploy military 
force up to and including full-scale conventional warfare in 
support of the opium trade ; 

* Build-up of an allied terrorist and organized criminal infra- 
structure employing revenues gained from opium trade and 
related black market activities. 



Protecting the opium market 

Even through the early decades of the present century, Britain 
retained an open diplomatic posture on behalf of unrestricted 

drug profiteering. 

In 1911. an international conference on the narcotics problem 
was held at The Hague. The conference participants agreed to 
regulate the narcotics trade, with the goal in mind of eventual 
total suppression. The success of the Hague Convention, as it 
was called, depended on strict enforcement of the earlier Anglo- 
Chinese agreement of 1905. Under that agreement, the Chinese 
were to reduce domestic opium production, while the British 
were to reduce their exports to China from British India 
correspondingly. 

The Chinese, who had subscribed enthusiastically to both the 
1905 and 1911 protocols, soon discovered that the British were 
completely evading both by sending their opium to their extra- 
territorial bases. Hong Kong and Shanghai. Opium dens in the 
Shanghai International Settlement jumped from 67 licensed dens 
in 1911 at the time of the Hague Convention to UU3 dens in 
1914! (14) In addition to the trafficking internal to Shanghai, the 
Triads and related British sponsored organized crime networks 
within China redoubled smuggling operations — conveniently 
based out of the warehouses of Shanghai. 

If anything, British profiteering from the opium trade jumped 
as the result of the reversion to a totally black-market 
production-distribution cycle. Ironically, the legalization of the 
opium trade into China Forced upon the Emperor through the 
Opium Wars had cut into British profits on the drug. Legalization 
had brought with it the requirement that the British opium 



merchants pay import duties, an overhead they did not have to 
absorb when the drug trade was illegal. 

In yet another act of contempt for the Hague Convention, 
Britain issued a major new loan to Persia in 1911. The collateral 
on that loan was Persia's opium revenues. (IS) 

Even with the post-Versailles creation of the League of 
Nations, Britain flaunted its drug trafficking before the world 
community. During this period, Her Majesty's opium trafficking 
was so widely known that even the Anglophile U.S. newsweekly 
The Nation ran a series of documentary reports highly critical of 
the British role. (16) 

At the Fifth Session of the League of Nations Opium 
Committee, one delegate demanded that the British government 
account for the fact that there were vast discrepancies between 
the official figures on opium shipments into Japan released by 
the Japanese and British governments. The British claimed only 
negligible shipments, all earmarked for medical use, during the 
1916-1920 period; while the Japanese figures showed a thriving 
British traffic. When confronted with this discrepancy as prima 
facie evidence of large-scale British black market smuggling of 
opium into Japan, the British delegate argued that such black 
marketeer ing merely proved the case for creating a government 

owned opium monopoly. 

As late as 1927. official British statistics showed that 
government opium revenues — excluding the far more expansive 
black market figures — accounted for significant percentages of 
total revenue in all of the major Far East Crown colonies. (17) 



British North Borneo 

Federated Malay States 

Sarawak 

Straits Settlements 

Confederated Malay 



23 percent 
14 percent 

18 percent 
37 percent 
23 percent 



In India as well, official Crown policy centered on protection for 
the opium market. According to one recently published account, 
when Gandhi began agitating against opium in 1921 




36. "Bullion Pile" prepared for a visiting Queen Elizabeth II by Mocatta's parent 
bank (valued at £6.000,000) 



II : ! 



LI 

II:: 



ili'i 



III 

i 
i 

if 
1 1 
I ■ 

;i 

i* 



i '.i 



i * 
.1 i 
I 



II • 



22 DOPE, INC. 

... his followers were arrested on charges of "under- 
mining the revenue." So little concerned were the British 
about the views of the League of Nations that after a 
commission under Lord Inchcape had investigated India's 
finances in 1923, its report, while recognizing that it might 
be necessary to reduce opium production again if prices 
fell, went on to warn against diminishing the cultivated 
area, because of the need to safeguard "this most 
important source of revenue. '* 

. , . while the British Government was professing to be 
taking measures to reduce consumption of opium and 
hemp drugs, its agents in India were in fact busy pushing 
sales in order to increase the colony's revenues. (IS) 

Lord Inchcape — who chaired the India Commission which 
endorsed continued opium production in British India — was a 
direct descendant of the Lord Inchcape who during the previous 
century founded the Peninsular & Orient Steamship Line and 
subsequently helped found HongShang as the clearinghouse bank 
for opium trade. Through to the present, a Lord Inchcape sits on 
the boards of P & O and the HongShang- 

In 1923. the British-run opium black market represented such a 
seriously perceived international problem that Representative 
Stephen Porter, Chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives 
Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced and passed a bill through 
Congress calling for country-by-country production and import 
quotas to be set on opium that would reduce con- 
sumption to approximately 10 percent of then-current levels. 
The 10 percent figure represented generally accepted levels of 
necessary medical consumption. 

Porter's proposal was brought before the League of Nations 
Opium Committee — where it was publicly fought by the British 
representative. The British delegate drafted an amendment to 
Porter's plan which Called for increased quotas to account for 
"legitimate opium consumption" beyond the medical usage. This 
referred to the massive addict population in British colonies and 
spheres of influence (predominantly in Asia) where no 




r 



HISTORY 



23 



regulations restricted opium use. The enraged U.S. and Chinese 
delegations led a walkout of the plenipotentiary session; the 
British rubberstamped the creation of a Central Narcotics Board 
designated with authority to gather information and nothing 
more; and the journalists stationed in Geneva henceforth 
referred to what remained of the Committee as the "Smugglers 
Reunion." 09) 




35 



34. Henry Jarecki (c) with Edward Mocatta (r) and Keith S. Smith, Managing 

Director. Mocatta and Goldsmid 
35- A morning gold-fixing, N.M. Rothschilds. London (second from right. Edward 

Mocatta) 



' :4 



■ I 



. ■ 



I'll 



■ ' I' 

i 



1 



100 



90 



80 



70 



6Q 



50 



40 



30 



105,508 



Britain's Opium War 
Against China, 1820-80 

Thousands ol Chests of 
Opium into China 



mm 









iV:i- 



58,881 




20 



10 







18.956 



^i 



5,000 




iliil 



30,000 



-Mitsas. 



.^*"Sf? 







■" £ 



sPKa 












■(SSS.1 ':-'«: 



:&. 






1820 



1330 



1836 



1660 



isao 



A chest of opium in 1820 sold for S2.075 on arrival at the port of Canton. 
While this figure tended to drop marginally us the volume of traffic in- 
creased after 1S30. any calculation of cash valuation of the opium trade into 
China establishes a figure thai very nearly parallels 'the present $100-200 
billion (when appropriate calculations are made to account For differences 
in purchasing power of the dollar in ratio to total volume of world produc- 
tion) in annual "black" revenues. 



2 



Palmerston's Fifth Column, 

USA 



The assassination bureau 

Narcotics traffic was the business of organized crime during 
the 19th century no less than in the 20th, and Britain's Opium War 
cabinet spun out a web of criminal connections that crisscrossed 
the globe. Prime Minister Palmerston conducted the opium 
business behind a screen of respectability, in full public view. 
What remained hidden — until the report of the Military 
Commission that heard evidence on the Lincoln Assassination — 
was the importance of Palmerston's secret life, as Patriarch of 
the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry. 

It does not surprise the modern student that the perpetrators of 
the narcotics traffic show up in every element of the dirty side of 
19th century politics, including presidential assassinations. 
But the extent of the web of criminal networks put in place by 
Palmerston could have come out of a Gothic horror story. Amer- 
ican counterintelligence specialists of the time, such as Edgar 
Allan Poe and Samuel Morse (I), knew the problem well. 

Palmerston's irregulars, employed in illegal dope trafficking, 



25 




37. Mao Tse-tung with U.S. General Hurley. 1949: double-cross 

38. Chinese Premier Chou En-lai, 1949 

39. Bertrand Lord Russell 

40. Walter Lockhart Gordon (r) with Peter C. Newman (c) and Abraham Rotstein of 
Canada's "China Lobby" 

41. Lord Amory, 31st Governor, G.T. Richardson, 32nd Governor, and A.J. 
Macintosh, Deputy Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company in 1971 



1 



- 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



27 



I* I- 



'•'/I ■ 
I' 1 ' 

ill 






ii 



. 



'"i, 

!i=i 



vi 



i , 



i ■ 



assassinations, and "Fifth Column" subversions against the 
United States in the period before and during the Civil War, are 
the linear ancestors of what is now called organized crime. The 
Chinese "Triads," or Societies of Heaven; the Order of Zion and 
its American spinoff, the B'nai B'rith; "Young Italy/' whose 
Sicilian law enforcement arm became known as the Mafia ; the 
Jesuit Order based in decaying Hapsburg Austria; Mikhail 
Bakunin's bomb-throwing anarchist gangs; and nearly every 
other inhabitant of Britain's political netherworld followed a 
chain of command that led through the Scottish Rite of 
Freemasonry directly to Lord Palmerston and his successors. 

The model for the Scottish Rite operation is the ethnic secret 
society — Jewish, Italian, or Chinese. Closest to hand among 
Palmerston s agencies was the Order of Zion, a highly 
specialized dirty tricks operation founded by London-based 
Hofjuden ("Court Jew") families, whose close ties to the 
British oligarchy traced back to the founding of the Bank of 
England, and before that to an alliance with the piratical 
financiers of post-Renaissance Genoa. The names of these 
families will appear and re-appear throughout this report, 
including the Mocattas and Goldsmids, gold dealers in London 
before even the Bank of England was there, now the operators of 
one of the world's most sophisticated money-laundering devices ; 
the Montefiores, now central figures in the modern Most 
Venerable Order of St. John of Jerusalem; and the de Hirsch 
family, whose tightly controlled colonization program for Jews in 
Canada brought the present leaders of organized crime to the 
New World. 

Control over the Order of Zion rested in the British Board of 
Deputies, founded in 1762 and still in action. One of the board's 
earliest presidents was Sir Moses Montefiore, described in 
contemporary accounts as "Queen Victoria's favorite Jew." (2) 
When Montefiore took command of the board in 1835, its dirty 
tricks division, (he Order of Zion, was on the verge of launching 
the covert campaign that would lead to both the Lincoln 
assassination, and the founding of organized crime, so-called, in 
the United States. Through the efforts of Montefiore, later Prime 
Minister Benjamin Disraeli (the Earl of Beaconsfield), and the 



then nouveau riche Rothschilds, the Order of Zion nursed into 
being the leadership of the Confederacy. 

Their starting point was the 1843 founding of the B'nai B'rith. 
also called the Constitutional Grand Lodge of the Order of the 
Sons of the Covenant, as a recognized branch of the Scottish Rite 
for American Jews. B'nai B'rith's first headquarters were at 450 
Grand Street in Manhattan, at the house of Joseph SeKgman, the 
wealthy "dry goods" merchant. (3) Seligman, whose name 
survives on Wall Street along with such of his contemporaries as 
August Belmont, Loeb, Schiff, and Lazard. was allied to the 
cotton-trading British oligarchy, 

B'nai B'rith was a straightforward covert intelligence front for 
the Montefiores and Rothschilds. Its American house organ, the 
Menorah, could not disguise its relationship to the Rothschilds. It 
chose to flaunt it: 

"The name Rothschild, in all countries is a synonym for honor 
and generosity, and no name in Europe has a popularity so great 
and so well merited. The Rothschilds in France occupy a social 
position even higher than that of the English branch of the 
family." (4) 

The Menorah was also frank on the subject of the B'nai B'rith's 
relationship to the Scottish Rite Freemasons: 

"Their reunions were frequent and several of them being 
members of then existing secret benevolent societies and 
especially of the Order of the Free Masons, and Odd Fellows, 
they finally concluded that a somewhat similar organization, but 
based upon the Jewish idea, would best obtain their object." (5) 

Once in operation, the B'nai B'rith effectively merged its 
operations with another branch of the Scottish Rite, based in the 
Midwest and South — the Knights of the Golden Circle, the fore- 
runner of the Ku Klux Kian, the training ground for the entire 
Confederate military and political leadership. (6) Its most 
important American operative was Judab P. Benjamin, a British 
subject and leader of the B'nai B'rith, whose amazing career 
included a brief term as Confederate Secretary of War and then 
Secretary of State, during the closing phases of the Civil War. (7) 
Another British subversive agent later worked together with 
Benjamin to found the Ku Klux Klan. He was Dr. Kuttner 



Si 




37 





«i 



28 



DOPE, INC, 



HISTORY 



29 



■i ■■ 



1/ 



,r 



14 i • 
! ( | 



Ml. 



•i > 



ill" 



Raruch, B'nai B'rith leader and grandfather of Bernard Baruch, 
a leading Wall Street Anglophile. (8) Their colleagues in that 
venture included Confederate Genera! Albert Pike, a Grand 
Commander of the Scottish Rite, and a Jesuit priest. (0) The 
same group carried out the Lincoln assassination — which raises 
questions concerning the Defense Department's refusal to 
release secret files concerning that assassination. Are they 
afraid to embarrass the now politically powerful B'nai B'rith? 

The B'nai B'rith and its Confederate opposite numbers, the 
Knights of the Golden Circle and the Ku Klux Klan, were only 
three of the many parallel operations that Palmerston brought to 
life during the lB60s. In Britain, future Prime Minister Disraeli, 
the man who evaded debtors* prison through the help of the 
House of Rothschild, launched the "Young Englanders." (10) In 
Italy, the local leader of the Scottish Rite, Mazzini, organized and 
commanded "Young Italy." (11) Scottish Rite member and 
Rothschild agent Alexander Herzen initiated a similar group 
covertly, avoiding the watchful eyes of the Czarist secret police: 
his best-known protege took the name Bakunin. (12) In China, as 
of the second Opium War, the long-established "Triad" secret 
societies had already taken the retail distribution franchise for 
the distribution of British opium imported from India, and had 
become an uncontrollable, paramilitary arm of British "free 

trade." 

What Palmerston and his colleagues had at their disposal was 
an International Assassination Bureau, capable of eliminating 
any chief of state who resisted British policy objectives- Not 
much different from the Red Brigades of Italy or the Baader- 
Meinhof terrorists of Germany today, the Scottish Rite's rainbow 
gathering of secret societies took money from the narcotics 
traffic and orders from Lord Palmerston. 

What must be judged, in the long run, as the most deadly of 
these organizations was organized on an international footing at 
the same time that B'nai B'rith appeared in the United States. 
Disraeli, Moses Montefiore, and Other leading British Hofjuden 
founded a new masonic-style order called, in the original French, 
the "Alliance Universelle Israelite." It became known — and 
feared — under the name of its elite secret arm, the Ordet of 



Zion. (13) Most of the Order of Zion's funding was provided 
through the London and Paris banking houses of Rothschild, 
Montefiore, and de Hirsch. In crucial respects, the Order of Zion 
and Palmcrston's Scottish Rite of Freemasonry were 
indistinguishable. In France, for example, the head of both 
organizations was the same individual, Adolphe Isaac 
Cremieux. (14) 

Order of Z Ion leader Judah P. Ben j am in was the individual who 
gave the order for Lincoln's assassination, according to the one 
authoritative historical document in the public domain, the 
report of the Judge Advocate assigned to investigate the 
assassination and report to the Military Commission 
responsible. (15) The report cites the orders of Confederate 
President Jefferson Davis and Judah Benjamin. According to 
this document. Confederate secret Intelligence had raised a dirty 
tricks slush fund of $649,000 through the sale of Confederate bonds 
in Liverpool. At the time, the headquarters of this outfit, called 
the Secret Cabinet, were housed in St. Lawrence Hall in Montreal 
— in the same building occupied by the Commander in Chief of 
British forces in Canada, General Sir Fenwick Williams. (16) 
The report names George N. Sandis as the group's money mover ; 
Sandis was an American citizen, formerly an advisor to 
Democratic presidential candidate Stephen Douglas, and Consul 
of the United States in Liverpool under the Pierce Admin- 
istration. 

Eight days before Lincoln's death, the chief of the Secret 
Cabinet — former Interior Secretary in the Buchanan 
Administration, Jacob Thompson — withdrew $180,000 from the 
group's account at the Bank of Montreal in Montreal, to set the 
murder plot in motion. (J 7) His courier was one John Harrison 
Suratt, a British agent trained at Jesuit Georgetown College. 
Neither Thompson nor Benjamin was ever apprehended ; both 
fled to England and remained there under the Crown's 
protection. (18) This evidence, heard on June 25 and June 26, 
1865, ran up against a cover-up effort under the direction of 
Secretary of War Edward Stanton that compares in audacity 
with the work of the 1963 Warren Commission. The relevant raw 
documentary is not available to researchers. The documents 





42. Queen Elizabeth II with Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliot Trudeau, 1978 

43. Corporate emblems of the Canadian money-laundering banks: Bank of 
Montreal, Bank of Nova Scotia. Canadian Imperial Bank, Royal Canadian Bank, 
Toronto Dominion Bank 

44. John Ruskin 

45. Cecil Rhodes 



30 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



31 



:* :■ 






* i 



< i 



11,11- 



relating to the Lincoln assassination are still locked up in the 
archives of the Defense Department. Jefferson Davis, who lived 
comfortably in Montreal after the collapse of the Confederacy, 
kept his papers in the Bank of Montreal, the same bank that 
conducted the funds for the assassination itself. If they are still in 
the vaults of the Bank of Montreal, the bank has not 
acknowledged this. (19) 

These facts concerning the death of President Lincoln are more 
than a useful case history, illustrating the power of the dope 
trade's criminal networks. If the leads developed in New Orleans 
District Attorney Garrison's investigation of the Kennedy 
assassination were accurate, the two murders were the work of 
the same operation. All that is necessary is to cross out the names 
"Secret Cabinet" and "Judah Benjamin," and write in: 
Pcrmindex and Major Louis Bloomficld (see Part III, Section 3). 

From what remains of the official record, there is no question 
that the death o! Abraham Lincoln was traced to British- 
controlled and British-funded networks by American military 
intelligence. Tt mast he underscored that much more than the 
central figure of Lord Palmerston brought these networks into 
the mainline of the narcotics traffic. Southern cotton, for which 
the British verged on invading the United States during the Civil 
War (20), was not merely a facet of the same trading operation 
that produced the dope trade; for all purposes, it was the dope 
trade. Opium was the final stage in the demand cycle for British- 
financed and slave-produced cotton. British firms brought cotton 
to Liverpool. From there, it was spun and worked up into cloth in 
mills in the north of England, employing unskilled child and 
female labor at extremely low wages. The finished cotton goods 
were then exported to India, in a process that destroyed the 
existing cloth industry, causing widespread privation. India paid 
for its imported cloth (and railway cars to carry the cloth, and 
other British goods) with the proceeds of Bengali opium exports 
to China. Without the "final demand" of Chinese opium sales, the 
entire world structure of British trade would have collapsed. 
Palmerston' s above-cited remark concerning the future of 
British trade in opium-consuming China and other parts of the 
East was, in fact, a matter of hard contingency. 



Britain's new instrument of subversion in the United States 
was controlled elements of Italian and Chinese immigration, 
combined with the Order of Zion entity that had been in place 
since 1843. By the turn of the century, the different ethnic 
networks became so intertwined that, for generic purposes, the 
name "organized crime" applies to all of them. 

The implantation of the ethnic secret societies into the United 
States is a complex story, but may be centered accurately in a 
few case histories. One is the way that the family of Sam 
Bronfman — the man who shipped enough liquor to the United 
States to double the size of Lake Eric, in the testimony of Lucky 
Luciano — got to North America. Bronfman's story begins, in 
fact, in Romania, where the Order of Zion secret organization 
achieved its first major victory, a coup d'etat that brought King 
Charles of Romania to the throne in 1887. In the years following 
the Civil War, the Order of Zion merged with the much alder Cult 
of Mizraem, a centuries-old covert organization that dated back 
to the days of Genoese and Hapsburg intrigue and assassina- 
tion. (21) From the British side. Sir Moses Montefiore. and on the 
Romanian front itself, American Consul Benjamin Peixotto, 
aided the local secret society in installing a new monarch. (22) 
Peixotto held a leadership position in the American B'nai B'rith 
and was a member of the Order of Zion. 



The Elders of Zion 

Romania became, in consequence, a nesting place for the most 
lurid form of Central European covert operations until the 
Second World War. The character of the political machine the 
Order of Zion installed in that country is perhaps best illustrated 
by the strong support Order of Zion elements gave to the 
Romanian Green Shirt Nazis, who seized power in Hitler's wake 
during the 1930s. (23) Romanian Jews show up prominently in 
American organizedcrime, as well as in the terrorist activities of 
the Israeli secret service, the Mossad. 

The Order of Zion was simply the Jewish division of the Most 
Venerable Order of St. John of Jerusalem, the London-centered 









43 



32 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



■•' i"i, 



i 
■f 



ill 



M 



'i 



■ i 



i I 



:l 



I 



chivalric order and secret society, whose members swear — and 
act on — a blood oath. A secret meeting in Paris in 1884 yielded 
the famous minutes of the Order, published under the title, 
Protocols of the Eiders of Zion. The minutes were intercepted 
and published by the Russian counterintelligence service, the 
Okhrana. (24) Probably, the decision to publish the captured 
minutes involved retaliation against the Order of Zion's role in 
fomenting a sweeping destabilization against the government of 
Russian Prime Minister Count Witte, whose government fell 
during the so-called 1905 Revolution. Witte had sought an alliance 
with Germany and France against Britain on a program that 
included the industrial development of Russia. The question of 
the authenticity of the Protocols has been a matter of fierce, 
even hysterical dispute. The question may be settled with dis- 
patch by a textual comparison between the oaths of the Order of 

Zion printed in the Protocols, and the blood-curdling oaths 
sworn by initiates into the fourth Grade of the Knights of 
Columbus of Mexico, which maintains close ties to the Jesuits 
and to the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, which reads in part as 
follows: (25) 



1. 



,, in the presence of all-powerful God, the 



blessed Virgin Mary, the blessed St. John the Baptist . . . 
by the belly of the Virgin Mary, the womb of God and staff 
ox Jesus Christ, I declare and swear that his holiness the 
Pope is vice regent of Christ and sole and true head of the 
universal Catholic Church on earth, and in virtue of the 
keys to do and undo given to your holiness by my savior 
Jesus Christ, (you) have the power to depose kings and 
heretics, princes, states, communities and governments 
and dismiss them from off ice without risk. . . . 

I promise and declare that I will, when the opportunity 
presents itself to me, wage war without quarter, secretly or 
openly, against all the heretics. Protestant and Mason, 
such as I may be ordered to do, in order to extirpate them 
from the race nf earth, and I will not take into account 
either age, sex or station, and I will hang, burn, strangle 
and bury alive those infamous heretics: I will cut open the 



stomachs and wombs of their women and smash the heads 
of the babies against the rocks and walls, in order to 
annihilate the execrable race; that when this cannot be 
done openly, I will secretly employ the poison cut, 
strangulation, the sword, dagger or bullet, without 
consideration for the honor, rank, dignity or authority of 
the persons, whatever their status in public or private life 
maybe, such as 1 may be ordered at any time. . . . 

If I manifest falsity or weakness in my determination, I 
consent that my brothers and comrade soldiers in the army 
of the Pope may cut off my hands, my feet and slit my 
throat from ear to ear. . - . 

I promise to execute and fulfill this oath, in testimony, 
whereof. I take this sacred sacrament of the Eucharist and 
affirm it even with my name written with the point of this 
dagger, drenched in my own blood and sealed in the 
presence of this holy sacrament. Amen. (26) 

Romania's Order of Zion stronghold produced, among other 
criminal elements, one Yechicl Bronfman, who emigrated to 
Canada in 1889- Hie circumstances of Bronfman's emigration are 
noteworthy. His passage was paid by the de Hirsch family fund 
for settlements in Canada — which conferred benefits with 
strings attached. De Hirsch political screening of new 
immigrants was so precise that a significant number of new 
arrivals were sent back without funds, for unreliability . (27), 

The important features of the arrival of the Italian "Mafia" in 
the United States are inseparable from the story of the Order of 
Zion. Mazzini, the sponsor of the Mafia in Italy, reported directly 
to the most prominent of Britain's Hofjvden. Prime Minister 
Benjamin Disraeli, and received funding from the leading British 
Hofjvden bankers, Rothschild and Montcfiore. (2$) 
Correspondingly, when Mazzini sent his lieutenants into the 
United States, the veterans of the "Young Italy" movement 
moved into channels already carved out by the likes of ex- 
General Pike and B'nai B'rith. The combination of Hofjuden- 
controlled crime networks and the Mafia provided the frame- 
work for organized crime on a big-business scale. 



i ; 



K 



34 



DOPE, INC, 



HISTORY 



■ > .- 

!■; 

■I ; 






'•!* 



I' 



i.l:-- 



;.'f: 



Mazzini's mafia 

The first arrivals of the Italian-speaking mob followed the 
tracks of the original "dry goods" merchants who figured so 
prominently in the B'nai B'rith. the grandfathers and fathers of 
the Our Crowd banking group in New York City. New Orleans, 
the first base of the Lehmans and I.azards in the United States, 
also became the receiving station for the Mazzini networks. Most 
important, the first recorded evidence of organized Mafioso 
activity in the United States identifies the Mazzini networks with 
General Pike's guerrilla war against the "Reconstruction" South. 

Nothing depicts this arrangement better than the stories o? the 
first New Orleans godfathers. Joseph Macheca and Charles 
Matrenga. Proteges of Mazzini, they took over the New Orleans 
franchise on behaif of the Palermo mob, which reported to 
Mazzini and thence to Disraeli. The chain of command was so 
well known that the ioke made the rounds that the word "mafia" 
was really an acronym for "Mazzini autorizza furti, incendi. e 
attentat!" — "Mazzini authorizes theft, arson, and 
kidnapping," (29) The first of the Mazzini networks drifted in 
before and during the Civil War. "The Mafias in New Orleans, 
New York, and Palermo were separate societies,' 1 wrote one 
leading historian of the period, "but they cooperated closely. A 
member who was properly sponsored could be transferred from 
one city to another, from one family to another." (3Q) 

By the close of the Civil War, Disraeli's Mafia was in the hands 
of one Joseph Macheca. By contemporary accounts, the 
activities of the Macheca gang were indistinguishable from those 
of the Klan. In 1868. Macheca organized the New Orleans side of 
Democratic candidate Seymour's campaign against Ulysses S. 
Grant. Seymour's funding and political direction came from 
August Belmont, the Rothschilds 1 official business agent in the 
United States. The campaign, such as it was, was described as 
fallows in the New Orleans Picayune: 

This popular and pleasant-mannered gentleman 
(Macheca) organized and commanded a company of 
Sicilians, 150 strong, known as the Innocents. Their 



uniform was a white cape bearing a Maltese Cross (the 
insignia of the British Royal Family's Order of St- John of 
Jerusalem — ed.) on the left shoulder. They wore sidearms 
and when they marched the streets they shot at every 
Negro that came in sight- They left a trail of a dozen dead 
Negroes behind them. General James E. Steadman, 
managing the (Seymour) campaign, forbade them from 
making further parades and they were disbanded. (3D 

One historian of the Mafia notes, "This matter-of-fact account 
is the first report of a formal Sicilian organization in New 
Orleans, and it is likely that from the ranks of these armed 
Innocents came the nucleus of Macheca* s Mafia." (32) 

Belmont's presidential candidate ran on a program drafted at 
the Scligman and associated Our Crowd banking houses In 
New York: the repeal of Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. 
The same cousins of the British Hofjuden controlled General Pike 
and his hooded goons, the Ku Klux Klan. whom Machcca's 
gangsters took such great pains to imitate — along with the 
conceit of the Maltese Cross. Pike, Macheca, and their para- 
military irregulars unleashed a wave of violence across the South 
that buried Lincoln's Reconstruction policy not many years after 
the President himself. 

The historical record shows that Macheca' s group in New 
Orleans, which started out by shooting blacks for the copperhead 
Our Crowd banks in New York, had proved its mettle by the 
early 1870s. It became the jumping-off point for the organization 
of the mob throughout the United States. Macheca provided a 
base for Mazzini's syndicate organizer of the first years of the 
Mafia. Giuseppe Esposito. A close Mazzini associate, Esposilo 
fled Sicily in the early 1870s, arriving in New Orleans to make 
contact with Macheca. Esposito traveled through the United 
States, pulling together Italian-speaking secret societies and 
establishing inter-city communications where none had existed 
before. From Esposito's lour onwards, the Sicilian-speaking 
secret societies became crime syndicates, Mazzini's representa- 
tive on the scene had absolute authority over the local god* 
fathers, even over the leader of the New Orleans base orfianiza- 





46. Robert Cecil, Lord Burghley. who delivered Tudor England to the Order of 
Malta's House of Stuart 

47. Stuart James VI of Scotland, James I of England (1603-1625). 

48. Grand Master of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, Villiers de I'lsle-Adam 
entering Malta in 1530 

49. The Seal of the Knights Templar 

50. A 14th century Knight of St. John depicted kneeling before Rhodes, the 
order's home base before the Hapsburg gift of Malta 




'.:' ■ 



J' 



Ml 



DOPE, INC. 



tion. Macheca's "Mafia leadership was eclipsed briefly," 
according to one historian, "from 1879 to 1881. when he 
temporarily deferred to Giuseppi Esposito." (33) 

Macheca died at the hands of a New Orleans mob. which 
dragged him from a prison cell and lynched him, after he had 
been arrested for the murder of a policeman. (34) His old 
lieutenant Matrenga took over the reins. Macheca's death left a 
deep impression on the syndicates; possibly this is the point 
where the mob decided to "go legit f " its strategy ever since. In 
order to do so, the Matrenga gang turned back to the Hofjuden. 

The vehicle for the New Orleans mob's conversion to 
"legitimate business" in 1900 was another Romanian Jew. an 
immigrant from the Romanian province of Bessarabia, whence 
Yechiel Bronfman had migrated to Canada some ten years 
earlier. The new immigrant, one Samuel Zemurray, obtained 
financing from a group of Boston and New York Our Crowd 
banks, and bought out a portion of the Macheca gang's shipping 
interests. A historian comments, "Joe Macheca's shipping line 
merged with four others to form the great United Fruit Company, 
which remains one of the largest of all U.S. firms." (35) United 
Fruit i— recharlered recently as United Brands Company — 
traditionally brought in Our Crowd bankers for its top manage- 
ment. Nonetheless, the Sicilian mob was remembered with 
nostalgia. When Charles Matrenga died in 1943, the entire board 
of United Fruit turned out for the funeral. (36) 

From these most prominent among the Jewish and Italian 
ethnic crime stories of the formative years of the American 
syndicates, the roots of the narcotics traffic and associated evils 
are already evident. The Bronfman^-we will document later, 
founded and bankrolled the modern-day Murder Incorporated, 
Permindex, the firm that police agencies in the United States and 
Europe have suspected of organisms the murders of John F. 
Kennedy, Italian oil magnate Enrico Mallei, and former Italian 
premier Aldo Moro, as well as the many attempts on the life of 
Charles de Gaulle It was in New Orleans that District Attorney 
Garrison linked the remnants of the old Macheca mob to the 
events in Dallas in November 1963. 
As old Charles Matrenga withdrew into a "legitimate** back- 



HISTORY 



37 



ground, the day-to-day operations of the New Orleans mob fell 
into the hands of Sylvestro Carolla. who, in turn, passed the god- 
father's mantel onto Carlos Marcello in the early 1950s. What had 
begun as a small secret cult, receiving direction from the London 
center of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry and Prime Minister 
Disraeli's Order of Zion, had spread across the American South, 
the Caribbean, and Central America. It maintained close ties 
with Meyer La risky and the British installations in the West 
Indies. 

And, according to sources in the Drug Enforcement 
Administration, 20 percent of cocaine smuggled into the United 
States arrives on the ships of United Brands. 



The Chinese entry 

Opium and morphine, in the early days of the mob, were not 
illegal drugs ; heroin only came into circulation at the turn of the 
century and was not made illegal as a prescription drug until 
1924. But the British dope-runners had a direct hand in the 
infiltration of narcotics into the United States, through the third 
wave of crime-tainted immigration, from China. 

Not coincidentally, the first large-scale importing of opium into 
the United States commenced with the "coolie trade, 1 ' referred to 
by its British Hong Kong and Shanghai sponsors as the "pig 
trade." Even before the Civil War, the same British trading 
companies behind the slave trade into the South were running a 
fantastic market in Chinese indentured servants into the West 
Coast. In 1846 alone, 117.000 coolies were brought into the 
country, feeding an opium trade estimated at nearly 230,000 
pounds of gum opium and over 53,000 pounds of prepared 
(smoking) opium. (37) Although Lincoln outlawed the coolie 
trade in 1862, the black marketeer ing in Chinese (the term 
"Shanghaied" referred to the merchant company kidnapping — 
through the Triad Society — of impoverished and often opium- 
addicted Chinese) continued at an escalating rate through to the 
end of the century. Often these Chinese "indentureds" would put 
their entire earnings toward bringing their families over to the 





54. Modern rites of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem 

55. Winston Churchill in Warden of Cinque Ports costume for the 1953 coronation 
of Elizabeth li 



■1 
I 



38 



DOPE, INC. 



U.S. This traffic in Chinese immigrants represented one of the 
earliest channels of opium into the country, and laid the 
foundations for the later mass-scale drug trade out of the 
Chinatowns developed in San Francisco, Vancouver, and other 
West Coast cities during this period. 

The amount of opium coming into the United States during the 
last quarter of the 19th century is measured by the fact that in 
1875, official government statistics estimated that 120,000 
Americans — over and above the Chinese immigrant population 

— were addicted to opium ! (38) 

Adding to the opium addiction was the fact that British 
pharmaceutical houses had begun commercial production of 
morphine in the years leading up to the Civil War and made large 
quantities available to both armies. The British firms 
misrepresented the morphine as a "nonaddictive" pain killer and 
even had the audacity to push it as a cure for opium addiction. 

The British Brahmins in the U.S. 

■ 

The nature of the London-centered cycle of international trade 
from cotton to opium further cultivated a group of British 
financial allies in the. United States. Some of these allies are 
comprador trading families whose activities span the entire 
period from the inception of the opium traffic through to the 
Second World War. 

Most important among these groups is the Aslor family 
dynasty, whose founder, John Jacob Astor (1763-1848) made his 
fortune in Chinese opium sales. One of his biographers reports, 
"We see that quicksilver and lead from Gibraltar and opium 
from Smyrna, as well as some iron and steel from the North of 
Europe, began in 1316 to take a conspicuous place in the list of 
Astor's imports into China.., Since according to Dr. Kenneth 
Scott Latourette, quicksilver and opium did not become regular 
articles of import into China by Americans till about 1816. Astor 
must have been one of the pioneers of their introduction.' ' 09) 

Leveraged into investments in Manhattan real estate. John 
Jacob Astor's opium earnings formed the basis of one of 




■i 
1 



.■■ 



HISTORY 



America's largest family fortunes. Participation in the China 
opium trade, a de facto monopoly of the East India Company at 
the time Astor took part in the traffic, was a privilege extended 
only to Americans the East India Company thought deserving. 
Other American firms active in the Canton trade did not touch 
opium. (40) Possibly, Astor's trading privileges were a British 
pecuniary reward for services as a British intelligence operative 
in the United States. Astor provided funds for the escape of his 
attorney Aaron Burr after Burr murdered Alexander Hamilton; 
at the time. Burr was a British intelligence agent. Burr's control, 
and the man to whom he fled after the murder of Hamilton, was 
East India Company employee Jeremy Bcntham. (41) 

Apart from the Astor group in New York City, the East India 
Company developed similar networks in Philadelphia and 
Boston, among other American cities. The leading British 
merchant bank Baring Brothers, which remodeled the old East 
India Company as an instrument for the opium traffic after 
William Pitt's installation as British Prime Minister in 1783, 
acquired a group of business partners (and brothers-in-law) in 
Quaker Philadelphia. The family the Barings married into was 
William Bingham's, reportedly the richest in the United States at 
the turn of the nineteenth century. Barings were prominent 
throughout the first years of the China traffic, founded the 
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank in 1864, and retained their family 
seat on its directing "London Committee" as of the HongShang's 
1977 annual report. 

One historian describes how closely the Bingham group aped 
the British oligarchy: 

Bingham was a most enthusiastic admirer of the British 
financial system which he desired to see copied in 
America. . . - Immense wealth enabled the Binghams to 
import fashions, and copy the Duke of Manchester's 
residence in Philadelphia... they gave the first 
masquerade ball in the city, encouraging what soon 
became a mania among the American rich — a passion for 
dressing up as aristocrats. 

The Binghams finally achieved their ambitions by 




-^ma. 






Q 






51. Amschel Rothschild. 18th century German founder of the family's financial 

empire 

52. Nathan Rothschild, founder of the family's British branch 

53. Prince William |X of Hesse Cassel. first patron of the Rothschilds, whose 
Prussian field marshal's uniform is decorated by a Cross of Malta 



40 



DQPt, INC. 



- 



HISTORY 



41 



r : 



N 



uniting two daughters to foreign aristocrats : one to Count 
de Tilly, and the other to a member of the London banking 
house of the Barings, who later became Lord Ash- 
burton. (42) 

Another Philadelphia family that united itself with Baring 
Brothers was that of millionaire Stephen Girard. (43i whose 
interests survived under the family name, in Philadelphia's 
multibillion dollar Girard Bank and Trust. 

Several of the old "Boston Brahmin" families, however, made 
it into the mainstream of the 19th century opium traffic, along- 
side the well-remembered British names of Jardine, Matheson, 
Sassoon, Japhet. and Dent. The Perkins and Forbes families 
achieved notoriety in the traffic after the East India Company's 
monopoly expired in 1832, and after the Astors had ceased to be 
an important factor. William Hathaway Forbes became so 
prominent an associate of the British trading companies that he 
joined the board of directors of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank 
in 1S66. two years after its founding. 

Haihaways, Perkins, and Forbes operated through a joint 
outlet, Russell and Company, formed around the Perkins family 
shipping empire, a "business reaching from Rio to Canton." (44) 
The fortunes of these families, as with the Philadelphia group, 
began with the slave trade — handed to them when the British 
dropped the slave trade as unprofitable in 1833. The China 
clippers of Russell and Company made not only Perkins's 
fortune, but most of the city of Boston's. A biographer reports, 
"By merging and creating Russell and Company, he was 
responsible to a large degree in the establishing of all of Boston's 
merchant families — Cabots, Lodges, Forbes, Cunninghams, 
Appletons, Bacons, Russells, Coolidges, Parkmans. Shaws, 
Codmans, Boy stons and Runne wells." (45) 

Baring Brothers, the premier merchant bank of the opium 
traffic from 1783 to the present day, also maintained close 
contact with the Boston families. John Murray Forbes (1813-DS) 
was U.S. agent for Barings, a post occupied earlier by Phila- 
delphia's Stephen Girard; he was the father of the first American 
on the HongShang board. 



The group's leading banker became, at the close of the 
nineteenth century, the House of Morgan — which also took its 
cut in the Eastern opium traffic. Thomas Nelson Perkins, a 
descendant of the opium-ami-slaves shipping magnate who 
founded Russell and Company, became the Morgan Bank's chief 
Boston agent, through Perkins's First National Bank of Boston. 
Morgan and Perkins, among other things, provided the major 
endowments for Harvard University. (46) Morgan's Far Eastern 
operations were the officially conducted British opium traffic. 
Exemplary is the case of Morgan partner Willard Straight, who 
spent the years 1901-1^ in China as assistant to the notorious Sir 
Robert Hart, chief of the Imperial Chinese Customs Service, and 
hence the leading British official in charge of conducting opium 
traffic. Afterwards he became head of Morgan bank's Far 
Eastern operations. (47) 

The above facts are necessary to round out the historical back- 
ground to the opium traffic today. What makes them especially 
interesting is the intricate trail that leads investigators of 
present-day drug financing back to the same American families 
and American banks. In Part HI, we will blow the cover of Phila- 
delphia's old "Main Line" Quaker families, whose present gener- 
ation controls not only the leading supply of illicit amphetamines 
in the United States, but funds a whole array of street-level drug- 
trafficking operations as well. 

Morgan's case deserves special scrutiny from American police 
and regulatory agencies, for the intimate associations of Morgan 
Guaranty Trust with the identified leadership of the British dope 
banks (see Part II, Section 7). Jardine Matheson's current 
chairman David Newbigging. the most powerful man today in 
Hong Kong, is a member of Morgan's international advisory 
board. The chairman of Morgan et Cie., the hank's international 
division, sits on the Council of the Royal Institute of International 
Affairs. The chairman of Morgan Grenfell. in which Morgan 
Guaranty Trust has a 40 percent stake, Lord Calto of Cairncatto, 
sits on the "London Committee" of the Hongkong and Shanghai 
Bank. 

But perhaps the most devastating example of continuity among 
the corrupted American families involves the descendants of old 




What the best drinks 
have in common. 



Seagrams 7 Crown 







59- Edgar Bronfman 

60. The whiskey his father 

Samuel ran into the USA 

during Prohibition 



42 



DOPE, INC. 



John Jacob Astor. American citizen Waldorf Astor, his direct 
descendant, was chairman of the Council of the Royal Institute of 
International Affairs during the Second World War, while 
Harvard-trained American citizens of the Institute for Pacific 
Relations smoothed the transition to People's Republic of China 
opium production (see Part II, Section 7). 

The old Boston families who made their fortunes on the 
narcotics traffic were the ones whom old Joseph Kennedy strove 
to imitate when he obtained his British liquor delivery contacts 
during Prohibition, and the same ones who staffed his son's 
Administration. 



■ 



3 



Britain's 
"Noble Experiment" 



In the years 1918 and 1920, two events of critical strategic 
importance for Britain's opium war against the United States 
occurred. First, the Royal Institute of International Affairs was 

founded. 

The purpose of this institution had been set forth over 40 years 
before in the last will and testament of empire-builder Cecil 
Rhodes. Rhodes had called for the formation of a "secret 
society" that would oversee the reestablishment of a British 
empire that would incorporate most of the developing world and 
recapture the United States (see Part II. Section 1% Toward 
this objective, Rhodes 's circle, including Rudyard Kipling, Lord 
Milner, and a group of Oxford College graduates known as 
"Milner's Kindergarten," constituted the Round Tabic at the 
turn of the 2flth century. In 1919, the same grouping founded the 
Royal Institute of International Affairs as the central planning 
and recruitment agency for Britain's "one world empire." 



43 



T 



44 



DOPE. INC. 



■:' 



HtSTORY 



■. i 

t m 

I-* 



ii! 



ii ii 



On January 6 of the next year, Britain declared its opium war 
against the United States. Americans knew it as Prohibition. 

Prohibition brought the narcotics traffic, the narcotics 
traffickers, and large-scale organised crime into the United 
States. Illegal alcohol and illegal narcotics made up two different 
product lines of the same multinational firm. The British, 
through their distilleries in Scotland and Canada, and the British, 
from their opium refineries in Shanghai and Hong Kong, were the 
suppliers. The British, through their banks in Canada and the 
Caribbean, were the financiers. Through their political conduits 
in the United States, the British created the set of political 
conditions under which the United States might be won back by 
means other than the failed Balkanization plan of the Civil War 

period. 
Two tracks led to the drug epidemic in the United States, one in 

the Far East, and the other in the United States and Canada. 

Against the outcry of the League of Nations and virtually all the 

civilized world, the British stubbornly fought to maintain opium 

production in the Far East, expanding tho illegal supply of 

heroin, just as the drug went out of legal circulation in America in 

1924. In North America. Canada — which had had its own period 

of Prohibition — went "wet*' one month before the United States 

went dry. 

In interviews with the authors, Drug Enforcement 
Administration officials have emphasized the similarity of the 
alcohol and narcotics modus operandi. When the agents of Arnold 
Roth stein and Meyer Lansky made their first trips to the Far 
East in the 1920s, they purchased heroin from the British with full 
legality. What the American gangsters did with the drug was 
their own business; the British opium merchants were merely 
engaging in ''free enterprise." When Britain's leading distilling 
companies sold bulk quantities of liquor to Arnold Rothstein and 
Joseph Kennedy — for delivery either to the Bahamas or to the 
three-mile territorial limit of Ihe United States coastal waters — 
they had no responsibility for what happened to the liquor once it 
reached American shores. (The identical explanation was 
offered by an official of the British Bank of the Middle East, 
which now services the Far East drug traffic through a smug- 



glers' market in gold bullion in Dubai, on the Persian Gulf. "We 
only sell the gold, old boy," the banker said. "What those fellows 
do with it once they get it is up to them .") 

Which of the American syndicates obtained this month's 
franchise for drug or liquor distribution was immaterial to the 
British traffickers. The greater the extent of intcrgang blood- 
shed, the less obvious their role would be. In fact, the British 
distillers could provoke such events at will by withholding needed 
inventory of bootleg alcohol. 

The "Noble Experiment" was aimed at degrading the 
American people through popular "violation of the law" and 
association with the crime syndicate controlled by the Our 
Crowd banks of Wall Street — the Zionist Lobby of its day (see 
Part III). New York's Our Crowd is an extension of the London 
Rothschild banking network and British Secret Intelligence into 
the United States. For example, Sir William Wiseman was the 
official head of British Secret Intelligence in the United States 
throughout the World War I period. He became a senior partner 
in the investment house of Kuan Locb immediately on demob- 
ilization. Wiseman was a personal protege of Canadian Round 
Table founder Lord Beaverbrook and one of the most prominent 
public figures in the Zionist movement. (1) 

With this lower Manhattan-Canada-centered grouping acting 
as the political control, the Prohibition project was launched 
during the early 1910s under the shadow of the United States' 
entry into World War J. It should shock no one that the creation 
and rapid growth of an organized crime syndicate in the United 
States was the filthy business of the Our Crowd banks — employ- 
ing the cults of Lord Palmerston and Disraeli that conducted the 
unsuccessful assault against the American republic during the 
Civil War. 

It is a fraud of the highest order that Prohibition represented a 
mass social protest against the "evils" of alcohol. Like the 
environmentalist movement and other present day anti-progress 
cults, the Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) and its 
Anti-Saloon League offshoots were a small, well- financed and 
highly organized circle that enjoyed the financial backing of the 
Astors, the Vanderbilts, the War burgs, and the Rockefellers. (2) 




61. Arnold Rothstein 

62. Meyer Lansky 

63. Thomas E. Dewey, re-organizer of organized crime 
in the 1930s 

64. AlCapone 

65. Charles "Lucky" Luciano 

66. Johnny Torrio 

67. Abner "Longie'Zwillman 

68. "Bugsy"Siegel 

69. John F. Kennedy, beginning the 1963 motorcade in 
Dallas that ended in his assassination 

70. Major Louis Bloomfield. wearing the Cross of Malta 




I!: 



>•' ! 



•r 
■f 



46 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



47 



if 



; i 

i 



Then as now, the funding conduits were principally the tax- 
exempt foundations — specifically the Russell Sage Foundation 
and the Rockefeller Foundation. John D. Rockefeller 1 was hood- 
winked by Lord Beaverbrook colleague and former Canadian 
Prime Minister MacKenzie King into not only bankrolling the 
WCTU, but providing it with the services of the foundations 
entire staff of private investigators. (3) 

Who made up the Temperance Movement? It was run by Jane 
Addams, who studied the Fabian Society's London settlement 
house Toynbee Hall experiment and came to the United States 
to launch a parallel project which later produced the University 
of Chicago. (4) The "cadre" were drawn almost exclusively from 
three pools : 1 ) the settlement house and suffragette networks 
run by Addams and the Russell Sage Foundation; 2) the pro- 
terrorist synthetic religious cults operated out of Oberlin College 
in Ohio; and 3) the Ku Klux Klan in the South. 

Oberlin College was founded by British "Christian mis- 
sionaries" in the decades leading up to the Civil War. Like the 
ancient anti-Christian Mantchean cult, Oberlin was organized 
around the principle that the material world was wholly evil; all 
students (i.e. initiates) were required to become vegetarians. 
From Oberlin 's student body some of the most violent radical 
abolitionist terrorists were recruited, trained and deployed and 
safehoused during the Civil War. (5) 

Like its predecessor radical abolitionist movement the 
Temperance Movement was founded at Oberlin in the post-Civil 
War period as a violent cult (known at the time as "Organized 
Mothertove**) . At the height of the Prohibition drive during the 
1910s, bands of ax-wielding lesbians — the Susan Saxes and 
Bernadine Dohrns of their day — received banner headlines for 
their assaults against saloons throughout the Ohio Valley. Many 
of these women were drawn from the Manichean cult at Oberlin. 

Once launched as a nationwide movement, WCTU founded a 
national headquarters in Evanston, 111. Nearby Wilmette, 111. 
(along with London and Tel Aviv) subsequently became the 
North American headquarters of the British Intelligence- 
organized Ba'hai terrorist cult. (6) 
In the South, parallel "fundamentalist Christian" cultists had 



been drawn together from the turn of the century under the 
direction of the Ku Klux Klan. 

These three British cults agitated nationally for Prohibition. 
While the WCTU and Anti-Saloon League staged well-publicized 
and frequently violent raids against saloons, the more 
sophisticated Fabian Settlement House social workers of Jane 
Addams used the unique conjuncture of the recently passed 
Seventeenth Amendment certifying women's voting rights in 
national elections and the concentration of much of the adult 
male population on the war effort to vote up the Eighteenth 
Amendment making Prohibition the law of the land. The Amend- 
ment was fully ratified by 1917; however, the Volstead Act that 
defined the federal enforcement procedures was not scheduled 
for implementation until January 6, 1920. 

The three-year lead time was critical for the establishment of a 
tightly organized crime syndicate, which was being organized 
out of Canada and Our Crowd banking circles in New York: 

* In Canada, a brief Prohibition period (1915*1919) was 
principally enacted by order of Her Majesty's Privy Council to 
create the financial reserves and bootlegging circuit for the U.S. 
Prohibition. In this period Canada's Hofjuden Bronfman family 
established the local mob contacts in the U.S. and consolidated 
contractual agreements with the Royal Liquor Commission in 
London. 

* Primarily out of Brooklyn, New York, teams of field agents of 
the Russell Sage Foundation conducted a reorganization and 
recruitment drive among local hoodlum networks — already 
loosely organized through Tammany Hall's New York City 
Democratic Party machine. "Legitimate" business fronts were 
established, replacing neighborhood nickel-and-dime loan 
sharking operations, and specially selected individuals — largely 
drawn from the Mazzini "Mafia" transplanted to the U.S. during 
the late 1800s Italian migrations — were sent out of Brooklyn into 
such major Midwest cities as Chicago, Detroit, and St- Louis in 
the 12 months leading up to the Volstead enforcement. One such 
Brooklyn recruit was Al Capone. 

The British oligarchy did much more than supply the gutter 
elements of the crime syndicates with their stock in trade. To- a 



«- 



48 



DOPE, INC. 



HISTORY 



I 'I 






h 



• ': 



!'■• 



sf-* 



surprising extent, the Anglophile portion of America's upper 
crust joined the fun. The case of Joseph Kennedy, who owed his 
British contracts for liquor wholesaling to the Duke of Devon- 
shire, and later married his daughter into the family, is notorious 
(see Part III). In some respects more revealing is the strange 
case of Robert Maynard Hutchins. the President of the Univer- 
sity of Chicago from 1929 to 1950. Hutchins had American citizen- 
ship, but was so close to the British aristocracy that he became a 
Knight Commander of Her Majesty's Venerable Order of St. John 
of Jerusalem, swearing an oath of chivalric fealty to the head of 
the order, the British monarch. 

Under the guise of "social studies research," several well- 
known University of Chicago postgraduate students received 
their apprenticeships in the service of the Capone gang: 

* In 1930, University of Chicago graduate student Saul Alinsky. 
the godfather of the "New Left," entered the Capone Mob in 
Chicago. Alinsky for several years was the accountant for the 
gang — at the height of the Prohibition profiteering. (7) Alinsky 
went on to be one of the most important British Fabian-modeled 
social engineers in the United States for the next 30 years, 
specializing in the creation of synthetic dionysian cults among 

the nation's youth and ghetto victims. 

Alinsky, in fact, used the organizational model of the Capone 

Mob to build up a criminal youth gang infrastructure in Chicago 
during the early 1960s that assumed street-level control over drug 
trafficking and related criminal operations run 30 years earlier 
through the Capone gang. When the Our Crowd sponsors of 
Capone's initial deployment to Chicago determined at the close of 
Prohibition that a more "civilized" cutout was desired, Alinsky 
was the channel for bringing Frank Nitti into the Mob. 

* In the late 1940s, University of Chicago professor Milton 
Friedman was installed as President of the Gold Seal Liquor 
Company — the original Capone enterprise. Friedman soon also 
assumed the presidency of the Illinois Wholesale Liquor Dealers 
Association — a position from which he no doubt carried out his 
first experiments ia"free market economics." (8) 

* As late as the lOfids, retired University of Chicago President 
Hutchins himself was under investigation for his involvement 



with drug trafficking and other black market enterprises. 
Through the late 1960s his Center for the Study of Democratic 
Institutions was financed principally through Bernie Cornfeld's 
Investments Overseas Service <IOS) — an international pyramid 
swindle and drug money laundering enterprise (see Part 111, 
Section 3). Furthermore, Hutchins was simultaneously the 
president of a little-known Nevada foundation called the Albert 
Parvin Foundation which several congressional committees 
investigating organized crime cited as a front for Las Vegas 
gambling receipts. <9> 



Mounting the drug invasion 

The United States' fourteen-year experiment 
accomplished precisely what its British framers 
Ralph Salerno, an internationally recognized 
historian on organized crime, a law enforcement 
former member of the New York City Police 
intelligence division, succinctly summarized 
Britain's Prohibition gameplan in his book 
Confedera Hon : 



in Prohibition 
had intended, 
authority and 
consultant and 
Department's 
the effect of 
, The Crime 



The most crucial event in the history of the confederation 
(organized crime — ed.) was a legal assist called Pro- 
hibition. . , , Prohibition helped foster organized crime in 
several ways. It was the first source of real big money. 
Until that time, prostitution, gambling, extortion and other 
activities had not generated much capital even on their 
largest scale. But illegal liquor was a multtbillion dollar 
industry. It furnished the money that the organization later 
used to expand into other illegal activities and to penetrate 
legitimate business. Prohibition also opened the way to 
corruption of politicians and policemen on a large scale. It 
began the syndicate connection with politics and it 
demoralized some law enforcement groups to the point 
where they have never really recovered. . . . 
The manufacture and distribution of illegal liquor here and 






( ' 






m 



tv.-.ffir 



E 









> 



nr 



& 



. . 



Cf.-m 



SS*/' 



crib-; £■'--- :L 



W- ! 









- 


















1 iJrelMjSKrl 




73. Aldous Huxley 

74. Aleister Crowley, in robes of the Order of the Golden Dawn 

75. Ancient Egyptian wall-painting, depicting the death rites of the Cult of Isis 
(now in British Museum) 



1 



y. 



t-.:. 



I 
i 



■ii* 
; 1 



*.• r 



1. 1 



. t 



50 DOPE, INC. 

the importation of foreign-made Liquor gave the men who 
were organizing crime experience in the administration 
and control- of multibillion dollar world businesses with 
thousands of employees and long payrolls. Men who had 
never before managed anything bigger than a family farm 
or a local gang got on-the-job training that turned them into 
leaders developing executive qualities. 
. . . Mass evasion of the Volstead Act also put the average 
citizen in touch with criminals, resulting in tolerance and 
eventually admiration and even romantic approval of 
them, it permanently undermined respect for the law and 
for the people enforcing it. Ever since Prohibition the man 
in the street has accepted the idea that cops can be 
bought. (19) 

The combined revenues of the illicit whiskey and drug trade 
during Prohibition had constituted a multibillion dollar black 
market booty. While families like the Kennedys and Bronfmans 
''made out like bandits" in the early 1930s transition to 
"legitimate" liquor trade, the overall financial structure for 
maintaining an organized crime infrastructure demanded diver- 
sification into other areas of black market activity only 
marginally developed previously. The market for illicit drugs in 
the United States — though significantly expanded as the result 
of the Prohibition experience — was not to become the foundation 
of a multibillion dollar traffic for several decades. 

In the interim, the Our Crowd- British crime syndicate turned 
to casino gambling and associated enterprises as the immediate 
area for expansion. The Lansky syndicate took the opportunity of 
Nevada's 1933 passage of specific regulations legalizing casino 
operations to turn that no-man's-land into a desert resort to house 
all the West Coast criminal operations that had previously been 
run on pleasure boats 12 miles off the coast of Hollywood. Lansky 
also moved into the Caribbean, preparing the way for the British 
offshore complex of unregulated banking. 

Through the investment of the phenomenal profits derived 
from the Prohibition into gambling casinos, professional sports 
stadiums and racetracks, organized crime established the 



HISTORY 



51 



foundations during the 1930s and 1940s for the drug trafficking 
that would begin in the mid-1950s — once a cultural climate had 
been created that was conducive to fostering drug addiction. 

Nixon's waron drugs 

It is not widely known that President Nixon was a Casualty in 
the war against Britain's drug invasion of the United Stales. Had 
Nixon not taken up the most basic interests of the nation in 
launching a wholesale effort to shut down the drug trafficking — 
from the top down — it is likely that he would not have been 
unceremoniously forced out of office by Henry Kissinger, Ted 
Kennedy, and their British masters. 

By 1970 Nixon became profoundly aware that the proliferation 
of drug abuse among the nation's youth had become a problem of 
such monumental significance that all his efforts to institute a 
long-range program of pcacc-through-development would be 
meaningless unless combined with a ruthless crackdown on the 
poison that threatened to wreck the nation's future leadership 
and its productive sector. Documents are available in the public 
domain from the Drug Enforcement Administration and other 
executive agencies showing that Nixon's "War on Drugs" was 
directed at the top — at the banking institutions, the transporta- 
tion grids, and only then at the distribution channels delivering 
the volumes of drugs onto the streets of the country. 

At the same time that Nixon generically understood the top- 
down nature of th« problem, he and hie assistants scarcely under- 
stood that by going after the drug infrastructure they were taking 
on the entire British oligarchy and the entire underpinnings of the 
Eurodollar market and the People's Republic of China. Had 
Nixon understood the drug problem as a London-Peking problem, 
he would have perhaps been better prepared to deal with the 
"inside-out.side" attack aftainst his Presidency. 

In Part II of this report, we will reveal the inner workings of the 
London-Peking Drug Empire the Nixon Administration ran up 
against when it declared its Waron Drugs. 





72 



71 . The Beatles are introduced to America 

72. The British intelligence cult of Hare Krishna 



1 






■'.V 

iU:l 

r 

4 

J J. 

ill 



52 



DOPE INC. 



Notes 



I.BRITAIN'S FIRST OPIUM WARS 

1. As quoted in Jack Reaching, The Chinese Opium Wars (New York: 
Harvest Books, 1975), p. 258. 

2. Adam Smith, Wealth of Nations. Representative Selections (New 
York: Bobbs-Merrill, 1961). 

3. Richard Morris. The Peacemakers: The Great Powers and American 
Independence (New York.* Harper A Row). 

4. B codling, Chinese Opium Wars, p. 43. 

5. In addition to the Chinese Hong merchants who collaborated with the 
British opium houses and the run-of-the-mill pirates and river rats that 
the British recruited into their service as the "eyes and cars" in Canton 
and the interior, the Hakkas. a people living in the southern province of 
Kwangsi who were under the strong influence of the Heaven and Earth 
Society (Triads) were particularly important to the British operations. 
The Triads, devoted to Ihe days of the Ming Dynasty — and who were 
very similar to the Freemason organizations in Europe and North 
America — wanted to overthrow the Manchu Dynasty. The Hakkas were 
used by both the British and their Triad allies as a grassroots bludgeon 
against the Emperor. The key figure in the joint Anglo-Triad venture was 
a religious fanatic named Hung Hsui-Ch'uan. 

Hung, having suffered public "loss of face" on four occasions — he 
failed the examinations that would allow him to join the mandarin class 
and become a government official — suffered a nervous collapse. He was 
in a trance for 40 days in which he was supposedly born again and then, 
using a translation of the King James Bible, he created a new religion 
based on the notion of "The Chosen People." The Hakkas were to be the 
Chosen People, and the Triad identification of the Manchus as the enemy 
was fully incorporated into Hung's quasi- Protestant religion. 

Hung served as the "prophet," and a Hakkas Triad member, Yang 
Hsin-Ch'ing, served as the recruiter and military commander of the 
movement. Yang was in the employ of the British as an opium runner on 
the Pearl River. 

In 1851, Hung and Yang launched a full-scale assault against the 
Manchu Dynasty - called the Taiping Revolt, or "The Triad War" — 
which drained China's treasury, shook the government, and demoralized 
China's pathetic army. The Taiping-Triud forces also played a significant 
role in the 1911 overthrow of the Manchu Dynasty that led to the republic 
of China under its president Dr. Sun Yat-scn (also a member of the "Hung 
Society 11 ), although the organization was outlawed as treasonous and 
terrorist in 1800. 



HISTORY 



53 



For further reading on the Hung-Triad Societies see: Lady 
Oueensborough, Occult Theocrasy, Volumes I and II (France: The Inter- 
national League for Historical Research, 1931), pp. 441-42: Beeching, 
Chinese Opium Wars, pp. 180-2(15. 

6. Beeching. Chinese Opium Wars, p. 80. 

7. Ibid., P.M. 

8. Ibid. .p. 127. 

9. Ibid., p. 95. 

10. Ibid., p. 272. 

11. Ibid., p. 272. 

12. Ibid., p. 264. 

13. Karl Marx and Frederick Engels, Civil War in the United States (New 
York: International Publishing Co.). 

14. Brian Ingles, The Forbidden Game: A Social History of Drugs (New 
York: Charles Scanner's, 1975), chapter 11. 

15. Ibid. 

16. Ibid. 

17. Ibid. 
IS. Ibid. 
19. Ibid. 



2. PALMERSTON'S FIFTH COLUMN IN THE USA 

1. Samuel Morse, "The Present Attempt to Dissolve the American Union: 
A British Aristocratic Plot" (New York: John F, Trow. 1862): Samuel 
Morse. "A Foreign Conspiracy against the Liberties of the United States" 
(New York: originally published by the New York Observer, 1835); sec 
also the soon-to-be-published book. The First American intelligence 
Service (New York; Campaigner Publications). Morse signed all his 
published articles under ihe name "Brutus. " 

2. C. Bcraant, The Cousinhood (New York: Mac m Ulan Company, 1972). 

3. Benjamin Peixotto. ed.. The Menorah, official organ of the B'nai 
B'rilh. New York. 1 (Sept. 1886). 

4. Ibid. 

5. Ibid. 

6. Official document recorded by Benn Pittman, The Indianapolis 
Treason Trial. 1865; Official Report — A Western Conspiracy in the Aid of 
the Southern Rebellion (Indianapolis: 1865); see also An Authentic 
Exposition of the Knights of the Golden Circle or a History of Secession 
(pamphlet), author unknown, believed to be Union counterespionage 
agent named Jim Pumfrey (Indianapolis: 1861); Mayo Fesler. "Secret 
Political Societies in the North during the Civil War." Indiana Historical 
Magazine $ (Sept. 1916). 

7. Burton Hendrick, Statesman of the Lost Cause, Jefferson Davis and 
His Cabinet (New York: Literary Guild of America. 1939), pp. 153-181; 
MaxKohlcr. Judab Benjamin: Statesman and Insist (Baltimore, 1905). 




•Hi 






54 



DOPE. INC. 



HISTORY 



55 



"5ii 



If! 



ill- 

H'.; 



> .1 

' ■ i 
H 



• (1 
,ll 



;, ■ t 



■ ■ 



8. Israel Joseph Benjamin, "Three Years in America, 1859-62" {New 
York: 1863), Vol. I; contains a profile of B'nai B'rith and 44 Jewish 
organizations. 

9. Albert Pike, Lectures of Arya and Ind&Aryan Deities and Worship* 
published by the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry of 
the Southern Jurisdiction of the U.S.A. on orders or the Grand Command 
of the Supreme Council 33"; see also Queensborough, Theocrasy. 

10. Queensborough, Theocrasy. 

11. Ibid. 

12. Ibid.; see also Merle Curti. "Young America," American Historical 

Review. 1929. 

13. Menorah, Sept. 1886; sec also Queen s borough, Theocrasy. 

14. Queensborough, Theocrasy. 

15. John A. Bingham, Special Judge Advocate. "Trial of the Conspirators 
for the Assassination of President Lincoln Delivered June 2-28, 1865, 
before the Military Commission of the Court Martial of the Lincoln Con- 
spirators." War Department Records. Section Monograph 2257, Official 

Transcript, 

IB. Clayton Gray. Conspiracy in Canada <L' Atelier Press, 1957); David 
Balsiger and Charles Sellin, The Lincoln Conspiracy (Albuquerque: 
Sun Publishing Co.. 1977), 

17. Gray, Conspiracy in Canada. 

18. Ibid. ; see also Susan Davis. Authentic History of the Ku Klux Kfon, 

1865-1877. 1324. 

19. Gray, Conspiracy in Canada. 

20. A. R. Turner-Tymauer, Lincoln and the Emperors (New York: 

Harcourt, Brace and World, Inc., 1062). 
21- Queensborough. Theocrasy. 

22. Menor a h, Sept., 18B6. 

23. The Green Shirts emerged from the networks that the Order of Zlon 
had put in place in Romania and consolidated with the coup to install King 
Charles in 1887; see also Paul Goldstein, "The Rothschild Roots of the 
KKK," Executive Intelligence Review Z$: 50. 

24. The political error the Okhrana made in its use of the Protocols was to 
generalize the notion of a Zionist conspiracy to include all of Jewry. The 
Protocols were then used by British intelligence operatives within the 
Okhrana to unleash pogroms against Russian Jews in conjunction with 
and following the "1905 Revolution" destabilization of the Witte govern- 
ment. 

25. The Protocols have been published most recently in Herman 
Bernstein, The Truth About the Protocols of Zion (New York; Ktav 

Publishers, 1971). 

26. Sources in Mexico made this oath available to Ihe authors and have 
confirmed that it is authentic. It should be noted, however, that the 
Knights of Columbus in the United States is a very different organization 
from this Mexican branch, and the two should not be confused. 

27. Canadian Jewish Congress report, 1967-68 (see Part Ml, Section 1). 



.**■ 



2S. Edyth Hinkley. Mazzini: The Story of a Great Italian (Port Washing- 
ton. N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1324). 

29. Charles William Heckethorn, The Secret Societies of All Ages and 
Countries. Vol. I and II. 1875 (New York: Universi;y Books. Inc.. 1965); 
see also David Leon Chandler, Brothers in Blood (New York: E.P. Dutton 
Co..Inc.l97S),p.3l. 

30. Chandler. Brothers in Biood, p. 103. 

31. Ibid., n. 75. 

32. Ibid. 

33. Ibid., p. 70. 

34. Ibid., pp. 95,1)7. 

35. Ibid., p. 97. 

36. Ibid., p. 98. 

37. Beeching, Chinese Opium Wars, p. 178. 
M. Ibid. 

39. Kenneth Wiggins Porter, John Jacob Astor, Business Man (New 
York; Russell and Russell, 1966). 

40. Beeching. Chinese Opium Wars. 

41. Porter, John JacohAstOr, p. Sl)4. 

42. Miriam Beard. History of Business, Vol. II (Ann Arbor; University of 
Michigan Press. 1963). p. 162ff.; see also Joseph Wechsberg, The 
Merchant Bankers (Boston: Little, Brown, and Company, 1966), 104 ff. 

43. Wechsberg, Merchant Bankers, p. 123. 

44. Beeching, Chinese Opium Wars. • 

45. Brett Howard, Boston: A Social History (New York: Hawthorn 
Books- Inc., 1076). 

46. Ibid. 

47. Ingles, The Forbidden Game. 



3. BRITAIN'S NOBLE EXPERIMENT 

1. Who's Who in America and Who's Who in World Jewry. 

2. John Kobler, Ardent Spirits (New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1973). 

3. tbid. 

4. Jeffrey Steinberg. ''Robert M. Hutchins; Shaper of an American 
Oligarchy," The Campaigner, Vol. II, 3-4:73-77. 

5. Queensborough. Occult Theocrasy. 

■;, 6. Bruce Wood. "Cult and Terrorist Activities in the Detroit, Michigan 
Area Since the 1960s," an unpublished manuscript, September, 1976. 

7. Saul Alinsky, Reveille for Radicals (New York: Random House. 1969). 

8. John Kobler, Capone: The Legacy (New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 
1972). 

9. Hank Messick, Lansky (New York: Berkley Medallion Books, 1971), p. 
152. 

. 10. Ralph Salerno and John S. Tompkins. The Crime Confederation (New 
York: Doublcday and Company. Inc., 1969). pp. 275, 278-79. 



A 





76. The Drug Lobby: Senators Jacob Javits and Edward Kennedy 




■' 



PART II 
How the 

Drug Empire Works 



i.f 



■•*« 






- T ^ 




•v. 





2. Rudyard Kipling 

3. The symbols of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry 

4. Milton Friedman 

5. Adam Smith 

, 6. A 19th century Chinese opium smoker 



lii 



I, m 

I'll 



Introduction 



The basis of this investigation 



In the following pages we will take the reader from the opium- 
growing mountains of the Far East's Golden Triangle, to the of- 
fices of opium wholesalers in the expatriate Chinese districts of 
Bangkok, Rangoon, and Singapore ; we will take him through the 
bonded warehouses, shipping lines and air freight companies of 
old-line British trading companies who control the Chinese expa- 
triate wholesalers; we will lead him through the maze of finan- 
cial channels that fund the Far East's opium trade, to the august 
portals of Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and 
other top British banks who control the financing topdown; we 
will lake him across the Pacific to the ports of entry for heroin 
into the United States, to the skyscraper offices of the Canadian 
banks and corporations who finance, ship, and protect the heroin 
en route to the United States; and, finally, we will guide the read- 
er down the family trees of the Canada-based Zionist financiers, 
to iheir contact -points in the world of organized crime and heroin 
distribution. When this is done, we will have reconstructed the 
Annual Report of Dope, Incorporated, including balance sheet, 



53 



60 



DOPE, INC. 



r. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



61 



board of directors, senior operating officers, table of organiza- 
tion, and subsidiaries. 

At the conclusion, the reader will know and understand more 
about the personnel and operations of illegal drugs — the world's 
biggest business since the days of opium-pusher Adam Smith — 
than the law enforcement authorities of the United States and 
other countries knew until recently. In the files of these agencies, 
in the minds of solitary investigators, and, to a surprising extent, 
in the public record itself, the pieces of the puzzle have existed for 
years. Fitting them together into a single picture is the task of 
this investigation. But the puzzle is not a jigsaw game, in which 
the picture is assembled by fitting the pieces together side-by- 
side. As a first approximation, it would be better for the reader to 
imagine a set of clear plastic overlays, each of which contains 
part of the picture; laid one on top of the other, they complete the 
puzzle. 

The different overlays of this puzzle are these; 

1) The detailed record assembled by American and other 
investigators of the mechanics of the opium trade from the Gold- 
en Triangle down to opium's ports of departure to the rest of the 
world; 

2) Pinpointed identification of opium wholesalers, largely in 
the Chinese expatriate community, including the names of lead- 
ing bankers ; 

3) A comprehensive profile of British finance in the Far East, 
revolving around the Hong Kong financial center and its leading 
bank, the Hongkong and Shanghai, including the web of British 
ties to the Chinese expatriate banking community throughout the 
area; 

4) An exhaustive grid of the British control over means of laun- 
dering dirty money in the hundreds of billions of dollars, includ- 
ing "offshore" banking, gold, and diamonds; 

5) A grid of the huge quantity of public record material show- 
ing the integration of British Far East and dirty money financial 
operations worldwide with the top level of British foreign policy- 
making, centered in the Royal Institute of International Affairs ; 

6) The similar public record of evidence of strategic agree- 
ment between Great Britain and the Maoist People's Republic of 



China, going back to negotiations between British opium-runners 
and Mao Tse-tung, under the auspices of the Royal Institute of 
International Affairs ; 

7) Twenty years of official documentation — from American, 
Japanese, Taiwanese, and Soviet sources — that the People's Re- 
public of China grows and exports opium not only to earn foreign 
exchange, but to fund secret intelligence operations, through Chi- 
nese expatriates ; 

8.) A comprehensive grid of the intimate links between all these 
elements — British old-Line opium-runners, British dirty money 
operations, Chinese expatriate overseas operations, British- 
Chinese policy agreement — with the " Canadian" connection to 
American organized crime; 

9) The international web of the British-centered "Zionist 
lobby," and its special function in gold and diamond-related dirty 
money operations, laundering of dirty money, financing of inter- 
national terrorism, and financial control of the Canada-U.S. drug 

channels: 

10) Lastly, a gridding that demonstrates that the leading con- 
trollers of the opium war against the United States are not only 
connected by interlocking directorates and other business tics 
but by ties of "blood" that constitute this web under one family. 

The resulting picture is comprehensive: the entire mass of de- 
tailed, documented evidence fits together into a single picture. 
stretching from the present day back through the British origins 
of the opium trade in the time of Adam Smith. 

The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank and related companies fi- 
nance the opium trade. In this, they are acting as designated 
agents of the British monarchy, through the Royal Institute of In- 
ternational Affairs. Not only do they control the expatriate Chi- 
nese legmen of the opium trade, but they do so as pari of an 
agreement negotiated between Mao Tse-tung and the Royal Insti- 
tute of International Affairs, by the Hongkong and Shanghai's 
leading representatives ! 

The gold and diamonds side of the dirty money laundering 
operations, under the immediate control of Britain's Zionist 
Hofjuden (Court Jews), is part of the same machine. Through the 
highest circles of British policy, all the important branches of the 



62 DOPE, INC. 

drug machine — the Chinese connection, the old-line British 
opium traders, the dirty "offshore" banking sector, and the Zion- 
ist Hofjuden — run Canada from the top. 

From there the trail leads directly into the American crime 
syndicate, through the Hofjuden Bronfman family. 

The world illegal drug traflic is not only the world's biggest 
swindle and subversive agency; it is controlled by a single group 
of evil men whose names and organizational affiliations are all 
printed below, and whose intimate ties of ownership, family, and 
political collaboration go back 200 years. We know their names 
and addresses, and know how to mop them up. 




;■ 



■ 



1 



Banking and the World's 

Biggest Business 



-. 



Assembled as one picture, the hard evidence available from the 
Drug Enforcement Administration and other law enforcement 
bodies leaves only one possible conclusion; The drug "industry" 
is run as a single integrated world operation, from the opium 
poppy to the. nickel hag of heroin sold on an inner-city street cor- 
ner. Not only is illegal drug traffic under the control of a single 
world network, but opiates traffic in particular is without doubt 
the best -con trolled production and distribution system of any 
commodity in international trade, illegal or legal. De Beers' Cen- 
tral Selling Organization's 65 percent control of world diamond 
wholesaling — an example not irrelevant to the drug trade — 
pales by comparison to the orderly marketing arrangements for 
heroin demonstrated by the hardest figures available. 

Investigators are daunted by the fact that the solution to the 
problem is so damned obvious. Imagine Edgar Allan Poe's fic- 
tional purloined letler, photographically enlarged to 6 by 20 feet. 
and used as wallpaper; then, imagine the French police attempt- 
ing to find it with magnifying glasses. 

When we speak of the drug-related illegal economy — for drugs 



63 



JL 



sa 



64 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



are the pivot on which most other illegal activity turns — we are 
talking of a $200 billion per year business, the biggest business in 
the world. That is net, not gross, annual sales of drugs, plus 
related illicit payments. 

Blow can such activity avoid sticking out wildly, especially in 
areas of concentration such as the Far East? Because the British 
monarchy organized most of the Far East to conform to the drug 
traffic? How can $200 billion in illegal payments get through the 
international banking system past the eyes of law enforcement 
authorities? The answer is: the Anglo-Dutch "offshore" banking 
system. This and related precious metals and gems trade were 
designed around illegal money in the first place I 

Mere consideration of the obvious — or what will quickly be- 
come obvious when the evidence of the public record is assem- 
bled below — gives the financial specialist the equivalent of an 
inner-ear disorder. The financial world, remember, is one in 
which the stock market will do flips over a measly few hundred 
million dollars' difference in the weekly reported figures for the 
American money supply. Although most of the necessary evi- 
dence has long been a vailable, both investigators and the public 
prefer to sec world drug traffic and related illegal activity as a 
montage of movie villains: Far Eastern warlords, free-lance 
smugglers, jowly gangsters, and corrupt politicians. Such indi- 
viduals figure into the world drug traffic, but as the arms and 
legs of a top-down operation, under the immediate control of the 
British and allied monarchies. 

The most striking single fact for this conclusion is thai the price 
series for heroin at retail level in major American cities show vir- 
tually total uniformity, l-aw enforcement records show that, 
within the acceptable range of 3 to 6 percent purity at the street 
level, the price of heroin has been constant between widely dis- 
parate distribution points during the past ten years. Arrests of 
local distribution chains, internecine warfare among drug' 
traffickers, interdiction of smuggling routes, the virtual elimina- 
tion of the Turkish opium supply after 1972, the scouring of Asian 
and European transit points, and local changes in political and 
growing conditions in the Golden Triangle growing area, all have 
failed to have any effect on the single world heroin price ! The few 



exceptions prove the rule, and consist mainly of sharp tempo- 
rary drops in some local retail prices, attributed to occasional 
free-lance supply through returning Vietnam War veterans and 
the like. (1) 



Where does it go? 

Closely related to the striking uniformity of inner-city heroin 
prices at retail level in the United States is the gigantic discrep- 
ancy between known levels of opium production for illegal pur- 
poses and consumption by the world's addict population. Fairly 
reliable statistical data are available for both. Within great mar- 
gins of fluctuation depending on weather, enforcement, and other 
conditions, available supply exceeds demand by roughly a factor 
often. 

Approximately 700 tons annually are produced and transported 
out of the world's largest opium-growing area, the Golden 
Triangle. (2) Seven hundred tons of raw opium, in the form of 
balls of opium gum, are the equivalent of about 70 tons of refined 
heroin. In practice less than half this amount is refined into 
heroin; the remainder is sold in the form of either opium or mor- 
phine base, largely for smoking purposes, and largely to an ad- 
dict population in the orient itself. However, by all estimates of 
the American addict population, approximately three tons per 
year of refined heroin are more than sufficient to meet annual 
consumption "requirements. 1 ' About that much again is required 
to maintain all other heroin addicts in the noncomniunisl ad- 
vanced sector. 

DEA and other official sources affirm the cited production 
figures through direct monitoring of opium shipments and other 
sophisticated intelligence methods. Consumption and sales are 
obviously limited by the possible size and financial resources of 
the addict population in the advanced sector. To use a rough 
example: If the full 30.000 kilograms of annual Golden Triangle 
heroin production obtained the full street price for heroin, the 
total retail value would be about $1 50 billion. But most estimates 
of annual illegal purchases of retail heroin are under $15 billion. 



A 



66 



DOPE, INC. 



In short, most of it is never sold, because production capacity is 
enormous relative to the market's absorption capacity. 

What happens to the rest of the heroin? Only a small portion of 
the total comes into the hands of law enforcement agencies, 
whose capture of a few pounds of heroin is a matter for cele- 
bration. We still must account for tens of tons. The law enforce- 
ment records indicate that the drug is warehoused in huge stock- 
piles against contingencies and to prevent oversupply on the mar- 
ket. For example, during the height of the crackdown on 
Southeast Asia heroin traffic in 1972 (immediately after U.S. 
troops withdrew), a 3inglc refinery captured by Thai police had 
on hand a stockpile of 3,000 kilograms: roughly one-tenth of 
Southeast Asian production. At the time. 21 refineries were 
known to be operational in the area. (3) 

MARKET AN ALYSIS 

The law enforcement record shows thai Dope, Incorporated 
does its best to avoid mishaps through careful research — on the 
streets of American cities — which is transmitted back to the 
poppy fields. Meo tribesmen in the Burmese or Yunnan Province 
mountains foothills do not plant what they feel like, but what they 
are told to plant. This facet oi the production cycle is well known 
to law enforcement investigators. If for some reason the market 
research is off, chaos will ensue, as it did in 1972, when the Golden 
Triangle yielded a bumper harvest, after wholesalers told poppy- 
growing peasants to increase their acreage by 50 to 100 percent. 
The wholesalers counted on the continuing exponential expansion 
of heroin consumption among American soldiers in Vietnam. 
Nixon pulled the rug out from under them by pulling the troops 
out, leaving the world heroin market in an unprecedented state of 
oversupply. 

Reckless price-cutting and competition for sales outlets in this 
case might have provoked serious consequences For Dope. 
Incorporated were it not for "government regulatory interven- 
tion." The Thai government stepped in and sold 22 tons of opium 
to the United States. The opium was burned in a public ceremony 
attended by giggling Thai officials, thus restoring "equilibrium" 
to the market, (In any case, the Thais were only repeating the 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



67 



action of the Imperial Chinese in 1839, who purchased and burned 
more than 3.000 ions of opium to the great relief of oversupplied 
British traders, who sent special fleets to India to bring addition- 
al opium back to get the Imperial Government's attractive 
price.) 

Once world illegal opiates traffic comes under scrutiny as an 
integrated, centralized "monopoly," the discrepancy between 
the huge oversupply and relatively restricted demand presents 
no further difficulties. We are looking at an "industry" based on 
the same principles as the world diamond cartel controlled by De 
Beers, or the so-called "club" among leading pharmaceuticals 
manufacturers. Diamond production capacity is so large relative 
to the absorption capacity of the world market that De Beers 1 
Central Selling Organization, running 85 percent of world 
diamond wholesale trade, limits availability in order to obtain es- 
sentially the price it wants. Pharmaceuticals are. ironically, an 
even better example. Since the knowledge to manufacture most 
of the commonly used prescription drugs is widespread among 
the pharmaceuticals companies, and since the costs of produc- 
tion are insignificant compared to the retail prices of most drugs, 
elaborate legal arrangements are necessary to prevent a price 
collapse. Notoriously, the profits of the pharmaceuticals industry 
owe not to chemists but to patent lawyers. 



How big an industry? 



Heroin trade is the ideal com modi ty cartel ; its price is more re- 
liably controlled than that of crude oil, and its world volume of 
Rales, at roughly $25 billion for heroin alone and considerably 
more for smoking-opium and other derivatives, is substantially 
higher than that of most of the commodities UNCI AD is present- 
ly considering for cartelization. A couple of comparisons are in 
order. At the recent world gold price of $225 per troy ounce, an- 
nual world gold mining production (outside the Soviet Union) 
yields less than $7 billion. During 1977, after an unprecedented 
price run-up, world diamond output was under $5 billion. 

Allowing for the relative ease with which a large dollar value of 



se 



DOPE, IMC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



■ i 



!' 



heroin may be transported — the drug is worth at street level 366 
times its weight in gold (4) — the worth of the drug trade is still 
boggling. It is even more boggling when the retail value in the 
United States and other OECD countries of nenopiate illegal 
drugs comes into the picture. For example, the Colombia mari- 
juana crop officially estimated for this year alone carries a retail 
value of $40 billion. (5) Since marijuana smoking is so wide- 
spread in the OECD countries, there probably exists a much Larg- 
er market in dollar terms than the relatively restricted market 
among heroin addicts. 

Beyond such examples, no accurate data exist. The best that 
can be stated is that the total world cash flow of illegal drug traf- 
fic certainly exceeds $100 billion, and almost certainly does not 
exceed $200 billion. 

The $100 to $200 billion figure includes heroin, opium, mor- 
phine, marijuana, cocaine, so-called hallucinogens, and abuse of 
otherwise -legal prescription drugs. It does not include the pro- 
ceeds of other drug-related illegal activities, including gambling/ 
theft, prostitution, smuggling, arms traffic, and so forth. It is al- 
most meaningless to assign a total figure to the size of the world's 
illegal economy. It can only be stated confidently that the illegal 
economy, whose cornerstone is illegal drug traffic, exceeds ihe 
gross national product of most of the OECD countries I That is an 
extremely conservative projection of the hard data available. 

To put the matter another way: all international traffic in con- 
trolled substances, including drugs, and also including means of 
barter for drugs — gold, diamonds, armaments, and so forth — 
the $200 billion international narcotics trade is bigger than the 
world oil trade. "DOPEC" is bigger than OPEC. World trade 
volume is a mere trillion dollars. 



Where does the money go? 

The question that emerges now is, "How is it possible that $200 
billion and up in dirty money, crisscrossing international bor- 
ders, can remain outside the control of the law?" Again, only one 
possible answer can be admitted: a huge chunk of International 



banking and related financial operations have been created sole- 
ly to manage dirty money. More than that, this chunk of interna- 
tional banking enjoys the sovereign protection of more than a few 
governments. 

These conclusions are obvious. If the entire resources of the lar- 
gest private bank in the world, roughly $70 billion, had no other 
use but the financing of illegal world drug traffic and related il- 
legal activity, those resources would be insufficient. If the mem- 
bers of the New York Clearinghouse, the richest group of com- 
mercial banks in the world, applied their entire $150 billion lend- 
ing volume to the illegal economy, the volume might just be suffi- 
cient. 

In the following sections of this report, the Anglo-Dutch bank- 
ing operations that control illegal drug and related trade are 
documented in detail. Below, we will demonstrate through 
several chains of evidence that this is the only possible banking 
network that could handle the requisite volume of illegal traffic. 
The Anglo-Dutch oligarchy's banking operations have the fol- 
lowing qualifications: 

1 ) They have run the drug trade for a century and a half. 

2) They dominate those banking centers closed off to law en- 
forcement agenciesl 

3) Almost all such "offshore, "unregulated banking centers are 
under the direct political control of the British and Dutch monar- 
chies and their allies. 

4) They dominate all banking at the heart of the narcotics traf- 
fic: the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, created in 1864 to finance 
the drug trade, is exemplary. 

5) They control world trade in gold and diamonds, a necessary 
aspect of "hard commodity" exchange for drugs. 

6> They subsume — as documented below *- the full array of 
connections to organized crime, the prodrug legislative lobby in 
the USA. and all other required elements of distribution, protec- 
tion, and legal support. 

TH E OFFSHORE COVERU P 
Financial specialists, who have lived too long with the smell of 
the West Indies backwaters to mind it any longer, will choke on 



70 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



71 



the above assertion. The general reader, by contrast, only needs 
to know a few facts in order to realize that something is wrong. 
All (he offshore international banking operations — including the 
clean side — are such a speculative whirlpool that virtually the 
entire deposit base changes hands every week. Hundreds of bil- 
lions of dollars, including at least a hundred billion in the offshore 
centers and further hundreds nf billions elsewhere, circle the 
world through leletyped bank transfers. 

No banking reserves are kept on any of this, as insurance 
against sudden withdrawals; in the United States, by contrast, 
commercial hanks must hold 15 percent of their checking account 
balances and 4 percent of their savings balances on reserve. The 
"offshore" banks just assume that if they are short of cash, they 
can borrow what they need on the enormous "interbank" mar- 
ket. This mind -boggling financial procedure involves banks lend- 
ing funds to each other in order to obtain fractional advantages in 
interest rates. Perhaps 40 percent of the total market is interbank 
money. Deposit maturities are so short, and money transfers are 
so rapid, that $50 billion changes hands every business day 
through the New York banks' Clearinghouse system alone. 

The "offshore" banking markets are precisely what the name 
implies: either Britain's old island colonies refurbished for inter- 
national banking, or inland feudal relics like Andorra and 
Liechtenstein. Federal bank regulators will only stare at their 
shoes when asked what goes on in these places. 

In the Cayman Islands, one of the largest offshore centers, the 
only government is the official "Tax Haven Commission." Law 
enforcement officers have absolutely no way of getting hold of 
bank records in such places. Repeatedly, they have identified the 
offshore centers as the place to look for dirty money. They have 
not been able to, because virtually all the centers arc under Brit- 
ish political protection (see below). 

American banks do a land-office business in the offshore cen- 
ters, precisely because no reserves are needed, and every dollar 
of deposits can be lent out for interest. Currently American banks 
have over $35 billion in loans booked through Caribbean offshore 
islands, more than through their offices in London, 

Even clean banking operations have moved offshore because 
present federal banking regulations virtually force them to. The 



% 

■: 

■ 



■ . 

- 



big movement offshore began under the Kennedy Administra- 
tion, when Anglophile Treasury officials C. Douglas Dillon and 
Robert V. Roosa railroaded legislation through Congress that 
taxed loans made to foreigners by American banks. The tax did 
not apply to loans made offshore, so that is where the bankers 
went By the time the Dillon-Roosa legislation was lifted in 1974, 
the banks were "hooked" through the difference in reserve re- 
quirements. In a recent interview in Euromoney magazine. 
Citibank's chairman Walter Wriston denounced the Dillon-Roosa 
taxes as a "pure gift to London/' (6) 

According to the estimates of the Bank Of International Settle- 
ments, the total assets of so-called Group of Ten offshore banking 
centers, the unregulated islands and enclaves where "bank 
inspector" is a dirty word, amount to $94,349 billion, or close to 
$100 billion, as of February 1977. The figures break down as fol- 
lows: 

Deposits of Group of 10 Banks in Offshore Centers 

(in millions) 

Andorra $ 3 

Liechtenstein 466 

Monaco 4Q 

Bahamas 35,700 

Barbados 70 

Bermuda 9Q0 

Caymans 12,200 

Netherlands Antilles 1,600 

Panama 7,200 

Trinidad and Tobago 154 

Kuwait, Qatar, UAE 3,300 
Bahrein, Iran, Iraq, 

Libya. Oman 9,300 

New Hebrides 139 

Singapore 10.000 

Hong Kong 6,300 

Lebanon 392 

Liberia 4,577 

Total $94,349 

Source: BanK for International Settlements 



r . 



1_ 



72 



DOPE, INC. 



m 






* 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



73 



The above figures do not show the actual size of the offshore 
banking centers, because they include only the assets of branches 
domiciled in the largest ten industrial countries. They do not in- 
clude such entities as the three large banks in Thailand's capital. 
Bangkok, which figure prominently in financing Golden Triangle 
opium production. Nor do they include thousands of smaller, "off- 
shore" finance companies based only in the offshore centers 
themselves. Expatriate Chinese banks in the Far East, which 
have long been known to be a key point of contact with illegal 
drugs and other contraband traffic in the Far East, also do not 
show up on these tables; there is no available data on these insti- 
tutions at all. Furthermore, the above table does include a great 
deal of legitimate banking business which American and other in- 
dustrial-country banks bring to the "offshore" market for tax 
and other reasons. However, the round figure of $100 billion is a 
useful starling point. 

Another set of figures is provided in the Bank of England's 
quarterly report, although it contains the same unwanted addi- 
tions and deletions, and is thus relevant; it shows the large vol- 

Deposits In or Loans From Britain By 
Overseas Banks (in millions) 







Deposits 


Loans 


Bahamas 




$3,000 


56,200 


Bermuda 




262 


17 


Caymans 




1,380 


1,408 


Hong Kong 




1,333 


1,910 


Lebanon 




867 


16 


Liberia 




- 


1 


Netherlands 








Territories 




151 


83 


New Hebrides 




13 


7 


Panama 




118 


583 


Singapore 




833 


3,173 


Barbados 




— — 


. — 


Trinidad and Tobago 


179 


23 


Total 




$8,134 


$13,399 


Source' Rank of England as 


published by I 


3ank for International 


Settlements . 









umc of interchange between London, which in major respects 
functions as the world's biggest "off shore" center, with the pre- 
viously mentioned outposts for illegal money. Unfortunately the 
available figures mix in both British banks' dealings and those of 
American and other banks which have offices in London. 

OWNED AND OPERATED BY LONDON 
More important than these numbers — which give a meager 
understanding of the volume of business in the offshore centers 
and mix in the legitimate business of American and other institu- 
tions — is the political control of the unregulated banking cen- 
ters. With very few exceptions, offshore banking as a whole is 
under the thumb of the Anglo -Dutch oligarchy. 

The British pre-eminence makes the world picture of offshore 
banking and dirty money more comprehensible. If the world off- 
shore banking sector appears to run as a single operation under 
British monarchy control, that is because the same group of peo- 
ple who run it also run the opium traffic whose proceeds this 
banking: sector was created to handle. 

One index of British muscle is the following breakdown of the 
offshore banking centers, comparing the number of banks in 
each center directly attached to the Royal Institute of Interna- 
tional Affairs governing bodies with the number of other banks in 

each center: 



Offshore Center 


RIIA-linked Banks 


Others 


Bahamas 


23 


21 


Bermuda 


5 





Antigua 


5 





Barbados 


6 


3 


Cayman Islands 


22 


12. 


Trinidad and Tobago 


6 


3 


Netherlands Antilles 


10 


5 


Panama* 


9 


20 


Singapore** 


14 


20 



*Thfi only one ol the above not u nde r British government control . 

"Does not count overseas Chines© banks and other expatriates. {Source: 
Polk's Banking Directory.) See also Directory to RIlA Chart (Section 7i. 



r- 



1A 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



75 



London and Switzerland are not normally considered offshore 
banking centers, although in practice both centers Function that 
way. Although Switzerland has signed a treaty with the United 
States permitting law enforcement officers to investigate and 
seize funds relating to illegal narcotics traffic (resulting in one 
recent $250 million seizure), Swiss banks are still notorious depots 
for dirty money. However, the Swiss side of the operation, typ- 
ified by Lombard Odier and Edmond dc Rothschild's Banque 
Privee in Geneva, and the Zionist-controlled Baseler Handels- 
bank is more specialized. Their most important activity is con- 
duiting funds for international terrorism. Most recently, Euro- 
pean authorities traced the funding of the 1978 Aldo Moro assass- 
ination through Swiss channels back to Israel. 

London is the largest center for Eurodollar banking under the 
encouragement of the Bank of England, which permits the for- 
eign branches of U.S. and other banks to hold external accounts 
in London without reserve requirements, and with minimal in- 
spection. At last count, international banks had $90 billion in 
assets in London. The Bank of England can do as much or as little 
as it wants in the way of regulation, under British law. 

For self-evident reasons, even the best-protected institutions of 
the British oligarchy prefer to launder their dirty money through 
Caribbean, Hong Kong, and similar branch operations, rather 
than in London itself. 

Because the British suppliers of narcotics have ironclad con- 
trol over offshore bank operations, American organized crime 
marketers of those narcotics have had a field day in the Cayman 
Islands and the Bahamas. American drug enforcement author- 
ities know that most of the dirty money arising from the U.S. 
drug trade and related illegal activities ends up in the Bahamas. 
There has been, unfortunately, little public heat against the 
British officials who control the operations. 

This level of control reaches the flagrant. For example, the 
chief of all banking regulation and licensing in the Cayman Is- 
lands, a close third behind Hong Kong and Macao in the big 
league of dirty money, is one Mr. Benbow. Mr. Benbow is a re- 
tired official of Britain's National Westminster Bank, which 
shares two directors, J.A.F. Binny and R.J. Dent, with the 



Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. Benbow got his present job at the 
recommendation of the British-influenced International Mon- 
etary Fund, according to a source at the IMF's Exchange and 
Stabilization division. Direct British "hands-on" management of 
the Caribbean ofFshore operation dates back to the 1940s, when 
E.D. Sassoon, Ltd. of Hong Kong — which had made its fortune 
from the opium trade over the preceding century — picked up, 
moved, and became E.D. Sassoon, Ltd. of the Bahamas. 

Virtually the only one of the offshore centers not under official 
British control is Panama: not coincidental^. Panama is the 
only offshore center where American banks strongly outnumber 
British banks. That is not to say that Panama is clean; on the con- 
trary, most of the funds derived from the Colombian trade in 
marijuana and cocaine are laundered through Panama, through 
the three large Colombian banks resident there. However, 
American banks have a measure of maneuvering room that they 
do not have in the Cayman Islands or the Bahamas, under the 
snooping eyes of the British authorities. 

West German banking sources believe that the British banks 
behind Drugs, Incorporated want to move in on Panama and 
close the gap. The West German sources identify a special fea- 
ture of the drug-ridden Hongkong and Shanghai Bank's proposed 
takeover of a controlling share in New York's $20 billion Marine 
Midland Bank: Marine Midland is the transactions agent for the 
central bank of Panama. All of the national accounts clear 
through Marine Midland. Should the Hongkong and Shanghai 
succeed in acquiring the American bank, it would exercise a deci- 
sive margin of control over the Panama offshore market, and 
bring British control over the offshore centers full circle. 

Longstanding ties between Marine Midland and Panama were 
reflected in the fact that a former board member of Marine 
Midland Bank, Couderl Brothers lawyer Sol Linowitz, negotiated 
the Carter Administration's recent treaty concerning the 
Panama Canal. 

FAR EAST CHOKEPOINT 
The next sections will concentrate on the Far East offshore 
banking connection to the drug traffic as a model for the world 



m 



76 



DOPE, INC, 



HOW THE DHUG EMPIRE WORKS 



77 



operation, and follow the trail back to the controlling centers in 
London. British control over the world dirty money operation is 
no secret, and the British- Canadian-Caribbean connection to or- 
ganized crime in the United States is so thoroughly documented 
that no doubt need remain. 

However, it is the Far East that acts as a chokepoint.for dirty 
money, in such volume that it dwarfs legitimate economic activ- 
ity in the region, and in the British Crown Colony of Hong Kong in 

particular. 

London has seduced and jostled American banking operations 
into the Caribbean to such an extent that there is a vast amount of 
legitimate money mixed in with the proceeds of the drug traffic. 
However, Hong Kong was set up by the British, literally from 
bare rock, as a center for the drug trade, and remains to this day 
purely British, and purely a center for the drug trade. In the Far 
Eastern example we can "prove 1 ' that Britain (and its Peking 
allies) run every phase of international drug traffic. 

The laundering cycle 

The Drug Enforcement Administration and other law enforce- 
ment organizations know how the cycle of dirty money in the 
United States works. The $50 billion retail proceeds of the total 
drug traffic in the United States are partly recycled into the drug 
operation in the United States itself, with large "offtake*' by each 
level of the crime machine. The net profits, in cash, are 
laundered through hotels, restaurants, gambling casinos, and 
sports events — the "corporate profile" of the Max Jacobs family 
and other footsoldiers of the British drug machine. 

After the cash is laundered through these nominally legitimate 
channels, it is transferred to offshore banking operations or their 
equivalent. Then, according to Drug Enforcement Administration 
officials, the funds take several trips around the world over the 
telex machines of offshore banks, passing through at least a half- 
dozen, and usually more, different bank accounts and corporate 
fronts, from the Caymans to Liechtenstein, from Liechtenstein to 



the Bahamas, from the Bahamas to a "nonresident corporation" 
in Canada, from Canada to Panama, and so forth. 

At various points in the process, the funds will purchase dia- 
monds, gold, paintings, or similar portable valuables. At a fur- 
ther point, the valuables will he translated back into cash, elim- 
inating even the trace of a bank transfer. For this reason, the use 
of undercover agents, in place even at fairly high levels in known 
branches of narcotics trafficking, has a poor record of detecting 
either the source or ultimate destination of narcotics-related 
funds. 

Once laundered, the proceeds of the drug traffic and related il- 
legal activities divide into three channels. First, between 10 and 
20 percent of the total is recycled back to the opium wholesalers 
in the Far East and the marijuana wholesalers in the Caribbean 
and Latin America, constitutins the net profits of the wholesale 
drug trade. A second part is invested in expansion of offshore 
operations, particularly gambling casinos, resorts, and other 
profitable operations that are also useful for further laundering 
of dirty money. The remainder is reinvested in the United States 
in "legitimate" racing, gambling, hotels, restaurants, and other 
business appropriate for cash-laundering and further expansion 
of the domestic drug traffic. 

As noted. Hong Kong and related Far East operations arc the 
chokepoint in the entire traffic, where dirty money is a way of 
life. We will focus on the Far East, the point of origin of world 
heroin traffic, and work backwards through the maze of Dope, 
Incorporated fronts and subsidiaries, to arrive at the British-con- 
trolled syndicates in the United States. 



«f 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



79 



2 



From Opium 
to Dirty Money 



The starting point for the drug cash flow is Ihc cash size of the 
opium and heroin traffic in the Far East itself, before the drugs 
obtain the stupendous price markups available in Western 
markets. The price pyramid is known to be the following : 

1, Raw opium, the gum of syrup extracted from opium 
poppies, is produced in the Golden Triangle, the conjunction of 
the southern border of the People's Republic of China (Yunnan 
province), and the northern borders of Thailand, Burma, and 
Laos. The mountainous terrain, largely above 4,000 feet in 
elevation, provides ideal growing conditions. Mountain peoples, 
rather than ethnic Chinese (including those in Yunnan province) , 
grow the opium and collect the Rum. The merchant purchasing 
the gum pays roughly $100 a pound, (J) at collection points such 
as tashioor Misai in Burma. 

2. By the time the merchant, typically a Yunnanese, has 
brought the gum by mule train to the triborder area. e.g. 
Tachilek or Chiengrai in Thailand, the price has doubled, to $200 



a pound. (2) At this point the opium is either refined into heroin at 
refineries located in the triborder area itself, or earmarked for 
the large Far Eastern market for smoking opium and related 
derivatives. 

Existing data permit the estimate that a division of an average 
700-ton crop into 300 tons for heroin refining and 400 tons for 
opium shipment for Far Eastern smoking purposes is usual. (3) 

The $200 pound price at the triborder area is the price paid to 
the local agent by a wholesaler based either in Bangkok, 
Rangoon, or Hong Kong. Any distinction among these cities is 
meaningless. The business structure of the area is under the 
control of two principal groups that straddle the Far East. The 
first is the old British banks and trading companies, including the 
HongShang. Jar dine Matheson, Charterhouse Japhet, Swire's, 
and the Peninsular & Orient Lines. The second, their satellites, is 
the overseas Chinese networks, under the joint control of London 
and Peking. 

The wholesale value of the 700 tons of annual opium product in 
the Golden Triangle, prepaid in the triborder area, is roughly 
$280 million. The $2fi0 million figure, compared with the Gross 
National Product of Thailand, is considerable; it is like §35 billion 
in terms of the American GNP. 

3. But this wholesale figure is only a small portion of the 
cash flow of the Far East drug traffic. The next wholesaler, the 
Bangkok merchant who buys from the first wholesaler, pays 
about SI billion for the equivalent of 700 tons of opium in the form 
of either raw opium or refined heroin. This is roughly four times 
what the opium was worth at the first wholesale round. The 
majority of production is retailed locally at large markups 
(although the markups are much smaller than in the case of 
heroin retailed in Western countries). 

While no hard estimates are possible, the cash flow in the Far 
East related to this first phase of opium production alone could 
not be less than SI billion. That by itself is 15 percent of the 
estimated assets of foreign banks in Hong Kong, or 10 percent of 
estimated bank assets of foreign banks in Singapore, or precisely 
Thailand's 1977 balance of trade deficit! 



1 



1 ■' 



80 



DOPE, INC. 



Measured against the size of economic activity in the regions, 
there is no possible way to chalk these numbers up in the "Errors 
and Omissions" column. The cash must go through nominally 
legitimate channels, in such volume that the nominally 
legitimate channels — like the HongShang — cannot possibly be 
unwitting as to the origin. 

Even these numbers do not sufficiently reflect the scale of the 
cash flow derived from crude opium sales alone. It must be added 
that most of this cash flow is seasonal: virtually all wholesaling 
must be completed during the two months following the March 
poppy harvest. Correspondingly, the visible flow of drug-retated 
funds is several times as large during those two months. 

4. Finally, the wholesale and local retail cash figures 
presented above exclude what is possibly the largest component 
of Far Eastern narcotics money: the reflow of funds back to the 
Far East from sales made in the West. The narcotics wholesaler 
in Bangkok or Rangoon or Hong Kong with direct contacts with 
the growers and control of refineries has paid about $2,000 a 
pound for the refined heroin. Between him and the street corner, 
the same pound of heroin will undergo throe markups of 1,000 
percent. Its ultimate retail value (for pure heroin) will be close to 
$5,000,000 per kilogram, according to official DEA figures, or 
$2.27 million a pound, with a total of,$25 billion for Western sales. 

What portion of this markup, and in what quantity, accrues to 
the Far East wholesaler? There is no possible way to estimate 
this. According to the record of arrests of heroin smuggling, a 
substantial portion of such smuggling is conducted directly 
through expatriate Chinese channels, like the Hong Kong-to- 
Vancouver route, (4) and the notorious activities of the China 
Sailors' Union of Hon*? Kom?. However, it is this markup that 
pays the wholesaler's out-of-pocket costs, including the original 
purchase from the highlands merchant, the refining, the huge 
quantity (perhaps 300 tons annually) of acetic anhydride used in 
heroin refining, security, bribes, transportation, warehousing, 
and so forth. 

If the annual profit of the Golden Triangle operators is in the 
range of $5 billion — or a mere one fifth of the annual retail sales 



GOLDEN 
TRIANGLE 



• Ch'iio Chou Expatriates 

• Burmese and Thai Wholesalers 
■ Bangkok Banks 

• Chin Sophonpankh- Bangkok Bank 

• Udane Tejapaibul — 
Bangkok Metropolitan Bank 

• Hongkong & Shanghai Bank 
'Jardinc Matheson 

• Charterhouse iaphoi 

• P&O Lines 

• John Swire 

• Standard anil Chartered 



t R 

•B. 
*S< 
■O 
• 2 
•O 



5300 million 



$5 billion 




Figure 1 



f 



'I , 



II ' 

I ' 



DOPE, INC. 

of heroin in the West — then the total cash flow in the Far East 
related to drugs is not $1 billion, as above, but $6 billion. The 
actual reflow is probably several times that sum. Some of the $5 
billion may be banked elsewhere than in the Far East. The 
comparisons to the size of the region's economic activity become 
all the more grotesque: Thailand's 1976 total exports were only $2 
billion. I£ven the $G billion figure does not include the huge Far 
Eastern market for opium and heroin consumption. Added in, the 
retail volume brings the total close to $10 billion — twice Hong 

Kong's money supply. 

There is another way to arrive at the same $10 billion figure: 
the official estimate for bribes paid annually to Hong Kong police 
is an astonishing $1 billion, more than the annual police budget. 
From a hard business standpoint, that $1 billion in payoffs is a 
major part of the overhead cost of both wholesale and retail drug 
operations in Hong Kong, the area's drug capital. Since the 
known profit margin in the drug trade is 500 to 1 .000 percent, it is 
fair to state that the $1 billion bribe figure is no more than 10 
percent of local drug revenues. If $1 billion is 10 percent of the 
total, the total is $10 billion. 



3 



How the Drug 
Trade is Financed 



The chain of financial control of world opium traffic begins in 
Hong Kong, with billions of dollars in Hong Kong dollar loans to 
expatriate Chinese operators in the drug-growing regions. These 
expatriates include two of Bangkok's best-known bankers, 
according to American law enforcement files. 

Hong Kong also provides essential logistical support, 
including: 

1) Smuggler-sized gold bars, obtainable through Hongkong and 
Shanghai Bank subsidiaries; 

2) Diamonds, available through Hong Kong's Anglo-Israeli 
controlled diamond monopoly; and 

3) Warehousing facilities, dominated by a subsidiary of the 
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. 



The HongShang 



Hongkong and Shanghai Bank is the semi-official central bank 
for the Crown Colony, regulating genera) market conditions. 



83 






DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



holding excess deposits of the myriad smaller banks, providing 
rediscount facilities, and so forth. Clearly, the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Bank is also the financial hydra unifying the produc- 
tion, transportation, and distribution of Asia's opium. 

Not only does it dominate financial activity in Hong Kong, with 
50 percent of total banking business on the island, but "bank and 
government often work closely together/' O) the London Finan- 
cial Times comments. The Colonial government in Hong Kong 
makes virtually no statistics on banking activity available. 
Commenting on the $R.3 billion figure for Group of Ten bank 
operations in Hong Kong, the Financial Times notes that, "The 
official figures are also just the tip of an almost certainly greater 
volume of business, which is conducted by international banks 
with finance company subsidiaries in Hong Kong, or organized 
from Hong Kong but routed through entirely offshore accounts in 
such places as Vila (New Hebrides)." (2) To be precise, there 
are 213 deposit-taking finance companies in the Colony, as well as 
34 local banks and 1Q4 bank representative offices. Over these 
squats the HongShang. 



The Chinese middleman 

The essence of the bank's drug control is its intimate relation- 
ship to scores of expatriate Chinese banking families scattered 
throughout the Far East. The British and Duteh connection to 
these families dates back to the first East India Company pene- 
tration of the region. The central banking role of the HongShang 
expresses an agreement that grew out of a century of official 
opium trade and continues through the present- 
First, consider the financial and logistical requirements of the 
trade. Planning for the March opium harvest begins in Septem- 
ber. The Bangkok or Hong Kong drug wholesaler must estimate 
the size of his market during the next summer, and, after market 
research is completed, inform his agents in the triborder area. 
(That market research must come from the United States and 
other retailers.) They, in turn, will communicate to the Yunnan- 
ese and other merchants who operate in the poppy-growing high- 



lands to the north what the market will bear for the next harvest. 
The merchants then inform the Meo peasants what acreage they 
may plant. 

At this point, the wholesaler must consider the following. First, 
the physical means of payment must be obtained, including 
American or Soviet armaments, gold in appropriate small-bar or 
jewelry form, or whatever, and this to the tune of $140 million 
worth. Golden Triangle peasants can*t use American dollars. 
Thousands of mules and muleteers must be made ready for the 
treks into the highlands." Bribes must be paid, routes monitored, 
border conditions observed, smuggling routes secured, contacts 
opened in the West, and other loose ends secured. The required 
seed money is in the range of the wholesaler's $2,000 a pound 
price for refined heroin. (3) 

What portion of the investment is made through "internal re- 
sources" of the drug wholesalers, and what portion borrowed, is 
a matter of guesswork. It is known that a very large amount is 
borrowed seasonally to finance drug wholesaling, largely from 
expatriate Ch'ao Chou Chinese banking networks. Since the 
Ch'ao Chou category includes Thailand's most prestigious bank- 
ers, who arc known to engage in financing drug traffic, very con- 
siderable financial resources are at the traffic's disposal. It is a 
matter of a 200 percent annual rate of interest — agreed and no 
questions asked. 

Known "angels" of the narcotics trade include Chen Pi Chen, 
a.k.a. Chin Sophonpanich, Chairman of the Board of the Bangkok 
Bank, with $5 billion in assets; and Udane Tejapaibul, former 
Chairman of the Board of the Bangkok Metropolitan Bank, with 
$2.4 billion in assets, Significantly, Sophonpanich, whose name is 
a Thai pseudonym, is a Ch'ao Chou Chinese expatriate. (4) 

Such scandalous relationships are not much of a surprise in the 
region. At the time of the 1973 Thai coup, the premier's son and 
chief of the narcotics bureau, Narong Kittikachorn, was found to 
be a prominent investor in drug wholesaling. 

The annual credit line that must be extended to drug wholesal- 
ers, assuming they finance half their operations through credit, 
probably comes to about 5150 million. Through pure chance, that 
is the average annual growth of the Bangkok Bank's l 'Loans and 



1 : 



■y 



36 DOPE, INC. 

Advances" during each of the last ten years. Of course. Chin 
Sophonpanich competes with many of his Chao Chou colleagues 
for this lucrative business. 

THE CH'AO CHOU 
Wherever die Ch'ao Chou expatriate banking community has 
surfaced in leading positions of influence, Peking, British, and 
opium trade connectiuns are evident. In 1958, the Thai authorities 
issued a fraud warrant against Bangkok Bank's Sophonpanich. 
He fled to Peking and remained there until 1965, after which he 
returned, a deal with the Thai military in hand According to area 
sources. Sophonpanich still maintains close contact with the 

Peking regime. 

As one among several Bangkok financiers who finance the drug 
wholesalers in the volume of $100-200 million per year. Sophon- 
panieh's contacts include several names that have frequently 
appeared on the "Opium Watch List*' of American law enforce- 
ment agencies: Ying Tsu-li, General Lo, and the brothers 
Hutien-Hsiang and Hutien-Fa. leading refiners of heroin in the 

tribordcrarea. 

In addition, area sources report that Sophonpanich has direct 
links to the so-called Triads, the expatriate Chinese secret socie- 
ties that do most of the leg work in the opium traffic (sec Part I). 

Vet, Sophonpanich is actually nothing more than a subcontrac 
lor of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, as we now demon- 
strate. 

The HongShang-Chinese deal 

Bangkok Bank illustrates the way the chain of financing leads 
back to the HongShang. Its current asset volume is $5 billion, 
much larger than the savings capacity of the area could justify. 
Banking sources report that most of its credit-generating capa- 
city comes from rediscounting of the trade paper of the Singa- 
pore and Hong Kong financial markets, and mostly with the 
HongShang itself. Since the HongShang controls 50 percent of 
Hong Kong deposits and acts as the ultimate rediscount agency 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



87 



for the entire colony and much of the rest of Southeast Asia, the 
dependency of the Bangkok Bank and other Thai banks on the 
HongShang is virtually total. Most of the Bangkok Bank's lending 
volume is subcontracted business, controlled by the HongShang. 

The British-Chinese expatriate link goes back as long as the 
British have been in the Far East The British organized the 
systematic colonization of tens of thousands of Chinese expa- 
triates throughout the area, and started them out in the lower 
levels of the business otherwise conducted by the East India com- 
panies and their successors, (5) 

Even where Britain displaced early overseas Chinese financial 
interests from positions they had enjoyed in the precolonial per- 
iod, they left them in local control or in a junior status in such 
areas as opium trading, and often virtually restricted them to 
those areas. As W.J. Cator notes in his book The Economic 
Position of the Chinese in the Netherlands Indies (G) and Purcell 
notes in The Chinese in Malaya, (7) Chinese monopolies of opium 
and alcohol local distribution continued in many Southeast Asian 
colonies, under the aegis of the colonial authorities, into the first 
decades of the 20th century. 

Colonial powers divested Chinese merchants of control of many 
trading monopolies granted by the precolonial local authorities, 
but left them in control of gambling and local drug and alcohol 
distribution because Chinese secret societies were uniquely 
equipped lo handle them. The secret societies, representing 
branches of societies operating in southern China, theoretically 
pursued the aim of their founding — the overthrow of the Manchu 
Ch/ing Dynasty in Peking. But as time wore on and the regime re- 
mained in power, the societies abroad became less interested in 
the politics of their homeland and more the instruments of over- 
seas economic interests. As anthropologist William Skinner notes 
in his book Chinese Society in Thailand, An Analytical His- 
tory, (8) the immigrant societies were usually headed by influ- 
ential monopoly owners — opium traders, keepers of gambling 
and prostitution houses — who generally used the societies to fur- 
ther the interests of their monopolies. 

In other economic sectors besides opium, it is common knowl- 
edge that overseas Chinese business interests were often 



•- 



DOPE, INC. 



employed as compradors, middlemen in the service of colonial 
banking and trading operations, indispensable due toiheir knowl- 
edge of the local market and their language abilities. The close 
economic relationships that certain segments of the Chinese busi- 
ness community enjoy with particular British banking interests 
date from that experience. At every point in the postwar political 
history of the region, the Chinese expatriate financiers have 
acted as consistent allies of the British and Dutch. According to 
standard estimates, Chinese expatriate financiers currently con- 
trol 60 to 80 percent of the economies of Indonesia, Thailand, and 
Malaysia. 

REGIONAL CONTROL 
What the size of expatriate dependency on the Hong Kong mar- 
ket is can only be guessed. However, the existing financial data 
show that the Hong Kong financial market is enormously 
oriented to foreign lending, in roughly the same proportion as the 
American banking system. One-third of all Hong Kong-dollar 
denominated loans — excluding the so-called Asiadollar market 
— are to foreign borrowers. Foreign lending stood at HK $18.47 
billion in March 1978, against $39 billion in local loans, (There are 
about 4.6 Hong Kong dollars to one U.S. dollar.) (9) 

Since the borrowers* market for Hong Kong* rather than 
American, dollars is limited to the areas of the Far East still 
under British financial sway, the HK 518.47 billion figure of over- 
seas loans reflects the immense financial dependency of Burma. 
Thailand, and Malaysia on Hong Kong. The business is largely 
conducted through Chinese expatriate family ties. Most of Hong 
Kong's 250 locally registered finance companies, in fact, arc 
owned by Chinese expatriates. 

The scale of expatriate Chinese operations, centered in Hong 
Kong and dependent on the HongKong and Shanghai Bank, is 
gigantic; the overseas Chinese community controls 42 percent of 
the foreign trade of the Southeast Asian countries, compared to 
32 Rercent of Western business, IS percent of non-Chinese local 
firms, and only 8 percent of state-controlled trading com- 
panies. (10) As of the most recent figures available, Chinese 
expatriate investments in the area totalled only slightly less than 



3 



?- 



Tins 

Miirkel 



Dirty Money to 



Caribbean, etc. 




Chinese E*patria(e\ Batiks (Hong Kcniy Brunches) 




i 



Opium 
Growers 



Figure 2 

The Hongkong and Shanghai Control 

of Expatriate Drug Trade 

The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, self-described as "a monument to 
British finance in Asia." is in full control of the Hong Kong money market 
(1), on which .such Chines* expatriate institutions <2) as the Bank of 
Bangkok absolutely depend for rediscounting loans, etc. Opium smugglers 
and wholesalers (3) in turn depend on the expatriate banks to finance their 
barter-purchase, refining and transport of opium and heroin from the 
"Golden Triangle" peasants of Southeast Asia and China'a Yunnan Province 
(4). From seed-money to dirty-money, the proceeds of the drug trade start 
and finish with the HongShang. 



90 



DOPE. INC. 



combined American, Western European, and Japanese invest- 
ments (although recent Japanese expansion in the area may 
have shifted the proportion somewhat). 



Country 

Indonesia 

Malaysia and Singapore 

Philippines 

Thailand" 
Cambodia** 
South Vietnam** 



Total Expatriate 

Chinese Investment 

$1.2 billion 

22 billion 

1.0 billion 

.3 billion 

.12 billion 

.25 billion 



TOTAL S5.D7 billion 

'Does not include investments of "assimilated" : Ch'aoChou bankers such 
as Udane Tejapaibul and Chin Sophonpanich. 
''Current stains unknown. 

The above figures only give a partial picture of overseas 
Chinese financier dominance ol Southeast Asian economies, 
because the expatriate Chinese bourgeoisie is overwhelmingly in 
such strategic sectors as banking, insurance, shipping, ware- 
housing, and other intermediary activities, rather than manu- 
facturing or agriculture. 

According to one of Stanford University's classic China studies, 
Thompson and Adfoffs Minority Problems in Southeast Asia, 
M Foreign-exchange and other controls (imposed by national 
governments in the area — ed-> have transformed many of the 
Chinese into smugglers and black marketeers, and such opera- 
tions have increased both their wealth and their unpopularity. 
Attempts to control the Chinese have almost everywhere run into 
the bewildering maze of overlapping Chinese organizations 
which exists in every country of the area, and they have been 
Frustrated by Chinese evasion, ability, and indispensability."<7J) 

The activities of the corrupted section of the expatriate Chinese 
community in Southeast Asia have provoked a long series of 
clashes with national authorities — who have not generally been 
successful in limiting illegal traffic. The one exception is the Brit- 



HOWTHE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



91 



ish possession of Hong Kong, the center of illesal operations in 
the area, where the smugglers are members of Hong Kong's high 
society, e.g., Macao gambling overlord Stanley Ho, who made his 
career smuggling strategic materials from Hong Kong to China 
via Macao during tJie Korean War. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



93 



4 



Britain's Gold and 
Dirty Diamond Operations 



One feature of the financing chain of the Far Eastern drug traf- 
fic—the Asian gold market— is a tipoff of the British (and espe- 
cially Hongkong and Shanghai Bank) control over the entire pro- 
cess. It might swm strange to the general reader, but the gold 
connection was one of a handful of critical clues that led investi- 
gators up the whole chain of evidence that will eventually put the 
management of the HongShang and a few other long-established 

institutions behind bars. 

Vast quantities of gold are absorbed into the Asian drug 
trade— an inestimable percentage of the 400 to 600 tons of the 
metal thai pass through the orient in a year, mainly through 
Hong Kong, and mainly through subsidiaries of the HongShang. 
The trade could not run without it and other precious, portable, 
untraceable substances— like diamonds. 

First of all, peasants of the Golden Triangle poppy fields do not 
appreciate secret accounts in the Bahamas. Furthermore, since 
the end of the Vietnam War, and the end of the widespread traffic 
in contraband and American arms and American dollars, the 
U.S. dollar in the form of currency is no longer an acceptable 



medium of exchange. They must be paid in food— which they do 
not produce themselves—goods, and gold or the equivalent. 

Secondly, the Peoples Republic of China's share of Golden Tri- 
angle production is paid almost entirely in gold, shipped in bulk 
across the Burmese border. (1) PRC gold income on opium pro- 
duction probably absorbs around one-seventh of all gold traded in 
the orient (judging from data analyzed more closely in Section 6, 
The Peking Connection) . There could be some double counting 
here, since Peking also sells gold on the Hong Kong market. 

Third, and possibly most important, gold cannot be traced, 
although any bank transfer ultimately can. One bar of gold looks 
like any other; changing a bank balance into gold or diamonds, 
and then changing it back into a hank balance, is like crossing a 
river to avoid bloodhounds. 

Gold is so important to the entire business that the metal's 
price is pegged to the price of raw opium in the Golden Triangle 
highlands- The dollar's fall in terms of the goid price from $35 an 
ounce before 1971 to about $225 recently has also dramatic- 
ally escalated opium wholesale prices. The escalation of the gold 
price over the past year has been so steady that all the numbers 
regarding the size of the opium trade may already be gross 
underestimates. One indication of the closeness of the gold-opium 
relationship is the well-known story that the CiA fieldmcn in 
northern Laos carried both gold and opium, to use as means of 
payment to the local Meo population in case of need. 

How illegal gold travels 

The American public will be shocked at how openly the 
HongKong and Shanghai Bank uses its monopoly in the Far East- 
ern gold trade to feed smuEHling operations. Prior to the official 
opening of the Hong Kong gold market in lf)74. Ho'ngShang openly 
financed the gold markets of Macao, the flagrantly crime-ridden 
island that plays "offshore" to Hong Kong's own "offshore" 
operations. Today the Hong Kong market is run topdown by 
Sharps Pixley Wardley, a 51-percent owned subsidiary of the 
HongShang. The Hong Kong market's current daily trading 



92 



. ■■ 



4L. 



94 



DOPE, INC. 



s 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



95 



m 



volume is in the hundreds of in il lions of dollars, on a par with Lon- 
don and Zurich. 

Apart from Hong Kong, the other route for smuggled gold to the 
Far East is through the Persian Gulf sheikdom of Dubai. The 
dominant commercial and gold market force in Dubai is the Brit- 
ish Bank of the Middle East, a 100 percent subsidiary of the Hong- 
kong and Shanghai Bank. 

A 1972 description from one of Britain's best-known experts, 
Timothy Green of Consolidated Gold Fields, Ltd., (2) is instruc- 
tive on how the illegal flow of gold travels : 

"It may indeed sound romantic, but it is a fact that both in 1970 
and 1971 at least 500 tons of gold— that is to say half of all South 
Africa's production, or 40 percent of total gold production in the 
non-communist world— passed through unofficial channels on the 
way to its ultimate destination . ' r 

"Unofficial" channels, as the author proceeds to make clear, 
means illegal channels. Most of the world's existing gold is held 
by central banks; prior to lft?l , gold was the basis of central bank 
reserves. With the advent of the new European Monetary Sys- 
tem, gold is again becoming an official monetary reserve. Gold 
dealings among banks, industrial users such as jewelers, and so 
forth, are also counted as "official" channels. 

Apart from the drug traffic and related money-laundering 
uses, gold smuggling has played a major role in aggravating the 
payments deficits of Third World countries such as India, where 
large numbers of private citizens hold gold. However, the Indian 
government in 1&77 opened up direct sales to the Indian popula- 
tion. This largely eliminated India as a haven for gold smuggling 
hy making gold available through official channels. Despite this. 
judging from the activity of the Hong Kong market, the propor- 
tion of gold running into illegal channels has, if anything, 
increased, and the drug-related proportion of the illegal gold 
increased as well. 

"UNOFFICIAL" MEANS ILLEGAL 
Green continues: "... these unofficial channels usually start 
in gold markets such as Beirut (since defunct — ed). Dubai, Vien- 
tiane. Hong Kong and Singapore which I am discussing 



today. Their chief role — their raison d'etre — is as distribution 
centers for the smuggling; they are entrepots convenient to 
nations, which for a variety of reasons, forbid the official import 
of gold for commercial or hoarding uses .... 

"Dubai has become the largest gold market in the world, 
except for London and Zurich — no mean achievement for a 
shiekhdom with a population of around 60,000. Both in 1!)70 and 
1971 Dubai had well over 200 tons of gold — indeed fn 1970 the 
equivalent of a Quarter of all South African production found its 
way along this golden pipeline lo India and Pakistan (and further 
■East. Since the beginning of official gold sales by the Indian gov- 
ernment, and the reopening of the Hong Kong gold market, 
Dubai's importance has attenuated somewhat— ed.) . . . 

"By contrast to Dubai, a gold market that developed very 
quickly to meet a special short term need was Vientiane in Laos. 
The market there really grew with the escalation of the war in 
South Vietnam. And it grew because it was the nearest and cheap- 
est source of gold. , . . This gold which was bought as a hedge 
against the constant devaluations of the Vietnamese currency 
and to hide the vast black market profits made from pilfered 
American arms and equipment, was paid for almost entirely in 
cash. (Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, pilfered American arms 
and equipment formed a major part of the barter goods ex- 
changed for opium in the Golden Triangle highlands — ed.). 

"Vientiane's short success made some impact on the oldest 
gold market in the Far East — Hong Kong, or more correctly 
Hong Kong-Macao, for the two are held together as it were by a 
golden chain. Hong Kong, as a British Crown Colony, forbids the 
private holding of gold bullion; only commercial gold of less than 
945 purity may be traded. To get around this regulation, gold bul- 
lion has for more than twenty- five years made a curious side- 
ways shuffle from Hong Kong to Macao and back again. The gold 
bullion — in 095 good delivery bars — that comes into Hong Kong 
by air from Europe and Australia ... is transferred in Macao, 
where it is melted down into Chinese 1.5 and 10 tael bars. It then 
returns, stealthily, to Hong Kong. This traffic has been presided 
over for may years by the Wong Hong Hon Company which nego- 
tiated a scries of two-year contracts with the Portuguese authori- 



A 



96 



DOPE. INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



97 



ties in Macao for exclusive rights for the gold traffic. The traffic 
was financed by the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank." (emphasis 
added) 

That is, in the testimony of Britain's leading gold expert, the 
HongShang financed illegal gold trade in Hong Kong itself , prior 
to the reopening of the Hong Kong gold market, after which the 
HongShang subsidiary Sharps Pixley Wardley took over the legal 

trade. 

AN UNDERESTIMATION 
Digging into the back archives, it is clear that Consolidated 
Gold Fields' 40 percent figure for smuggled gold in 1972 repre- 
sents, if anything, a moderation of past trends. Earlier figures 
are much higher. For example. British author Paul Ferris in The 
City (3) claimed that in 1951 only 17 percent of all world gold pro- 
duction went through official channels; Ferris' s report was 
based on interviews with the London gold pool. "What happens 
to the gold when it disappears into the economic undergrowth of 
the East is of no concern to the London bullion dealers," Ferris 
claimed, but as we will demonstrate, the London bullion dealers 
know precisely what happens tn the gold in the Far East. The 
London bullion market is merely a subsidiary of Dope. 

Incorporated. 

In the July 22, 1952 issue of The Reporter, an article under the 
byline of H.R. Reinhart, the then Far East correspondent of the 
Ncuc Zuercher Zeitung, estimated Asian gold smuggling at $150 
million in that year. At today's gold prices, the figure would be $1 
billion for the same quantity of gold. The account bears impres- 
sive credentials, since 1) the Reporter editor at the time was Har- 
lan Cleveland, now a senior official of the Aspen Institute, and 
part of the present drug machine in the U.S.: and 2) the Meue 
Zuercher Zeiiung, Switzerland's top daily paper, is linked 
through European aristocratic lies directly to the British 

monarchy. (4) 

Reinhart identified a "Golden Loop, the circuitous path that 
leads from North Africa to the coast of Red China and back again 
as far west as India." The center of gold smuggling was the 
Portuguese-controlled island of Macao, where gold smuggling is 



legal, and "anyone who dares call a smuggler a smuggler can be 
sued for libel." Then the gold is smuggled into Hong Kong, and 
thence to the rest of Asia. 

A mere 3 percent of the smuggled gold is seized by Hong Kong 
authorities, Reinhart noted, even though customs officials 
receive a 20 percent commission on all seizures; presumably, 
bribes to customs officials are more substantial. 

Standard Western and Soviet sources estimate the smugglers' 
commission at 30-50 percent in such transactions. Soviet eco- 
nomist M.A. Andreyev reports: "According to a Chinese busi- 
nessman in Singapore, smuggling yields a profit of up to 100 per- 
cent on invested capital, which is several times higher than the 
profit received in the basic branches of the island's economy. In 
Hong Kong the commission paid to smugglers amounts to from 30 
to 50 percent of the cost of the smuggled commodities." (5) 

However, if the bribes paid to Hong Kong customs officials are 
substantial enough to overshadow the 20 percent kickback on 
seized contraband gold, the bribes must also be in the order of 30 
to 50 percent. The point is that Ihe gold trade itself would not be 
profitable, unless it were only a bridge transaction in a much 
more profitable operation — e.g.. narcotics traffic! That is the 
case. 

But as Reinhart reported, "British justice, as dispensed by the 
magistrates' court in Hong Kong, extends even the benefit of the 
doubt to a suspected smuggler caught with the goods." That 
should not be a surprise at this point: as noted before, it was a 
matter nf public record for aqua rter century that Britain's Hong- 
kong and Shanghai Bank itself financed the gold smuggling! 

PEKING'S GOLD 

One further crucial point — whose full importance will only 
emerge in the following sections — is that the People's Republic 
of China has been in on the illegal gold market since the 1&49 Mao- 
ist takeover. 

Gold flown into Macao, as noted above, was (before Hong Kong 
opened up its gold markets in 1949) resmelted into bars of less 
than 95 percent purity, whose trading the Hnng Kong authorities 
hypocritically endorsed. The resmelting, Reinhart reported, was 



A. 



. -F 




HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WOflKS 



99 



* 



the business of the Kan Kuam Tsing Company in Macao. "On ihe 
Hong Kong exchange." the Swiss journalist added, "the buyer is 
not unlikely from the People's Republic of China." Since thePRC 
buyer wants metal of monetary-reserve purity, above 95 percent, 
he takes the gold back to the Kan Kuam Tsing Company, and 
reconverts the gold back to a higher purity level. Reinhart identi- 
fied the firm Pao San and Co. as a regular vehicle for Peking gold 
purchases during the early 1950s, (6) 

According to Reinhart. the PRC entered the Hong Kong gold 
market in 1950. Last July's announcement that 13 Communist- 
owned banks in Hong Kong would be permitted to trade directly 
in the Hong Kong gold market thus only extends an agreement 
that has been in force since the founding of the PRC. 



One big gold pool 

Apart from a relatively insignificant flow of gold into Hong 
Kong from mines in Australia and the Philippines — insignificant 



Figure 3 

Adjacent map is based on one appearing in the 1977 annual report of Con- 
solidated Gold Fields, Ltd. The world total of gold in metric Ions was only 
approximately 1,500. Of this, 390 metric tons was distributed from Europe 
through Dubai and 2S7ntt through China, primarily by British- con trolled 
agencies, most of it ending up in Hong Kong. Another IQmt is directly 
exported to Hong Kong, for a total of G95mt. The vast proportion of this 
flow is ' 'unofficial, ' ; and is put to use in drug-related dirty-money 
laundering. <Cf. Figures.) 



J_ 



100 



DOPE, INC. 



compared to the 300 tons of gold traded in Hong Kong during 1977 
and the 600 tons traded during 1 978 (projected) — Hong Kong 
depends entirely on the London gold pool for its supplies. 

Why do London's gold pool operators tolerate this situation? 
Because the London gold pool is the same operation as the 
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, controlled by the same London 
families whose drug-running activities go back 150 years. 

There are two major South African gold producers, Anglo- 
American and Consolidated Gold Fields (whose gold specialist 
was quoted above); there is one major South African diamond 
producer. De Beers, largely owned by Anglo-American; and five 
major London gold pool firms, who meet every day in the trading 
room of N.M. Rothschilds at New Court, St. S within Street, 
London, to set the world gold "fixing." Examining these firms 
individually, we discover such a manifold of connections that it is 
meaningless to speak of the London and Hong Kong gold markets 
as anything but branch offices of the same operation. 

Hongkong and Shanghai's own gold-trading outlet is Sharps 
Pixley Wardley, of which they own 51 percent. One of the five 
London gold pool firms, Sharps Pixley, owns the remaining 49 
percent. But Sharps Pixley itself is a fully owned subsidiary of 
the London merchant bank KJeinwort Benson whose deputy 
chairman is Sir Mark Turner, the chairman of Rio Tinto Zinc. 
Rio Tinto Zinc itself was founded a century ago with the opium- 
trading profits of Jardine Matheson, by a member of the Mathe- 
son family; the Mathesons are still large shareholders in the 
HongShang. The Matheson family's heirs, the Keswick family, 
still have their traditional seat on the HongShang board. Sir Mark 
Turner spent World War U at Britain's Ministry of Economic 
Warfare, which also employed Sir John Henry Keswick, and 
another HongShang board member, John Kidston Swire. 

Hong Kong's second largest bank, the Standard and Chartered 
Bank, owns a majority share of another member of the London 
gold pool, Mocatta Metals. Standard and Chartered's pre- 
decessor, the Standard Bank, was founded a century ago by Cecil 
Rhodes, of whom we will have much to say later in Section 7. 
Standard and Chartered is not only a close collaborator of the 
HongShang in such matters as the transfer of Red Chinese opium 




NEW YORK 

Mocatta MetaK 

Engelhard Minerals 

NMR Metals 

Republic National 

Bank of 
Nova Scotia (N.Y.) 

Loeb. Rhosdcs 

Harry Winston 



CANADA 

Bank of 
Nova Scotia 

Noranda 
Sales Corp. 

Royal Bank of 
Canada 

Canadian 
Imperial Bank 




«*. 



BRITISH PRODUCERS 

BRITISH BANKS 
Clearing Banks London Gold Pool 




MIDEAST & 
SUBCONTINENT 

Hong Kong and 
Shanghai Bank 

British Bank of the Middle Hast 

Barclays Int'l 
(Dubai) 

Barclays 
Discount Bank 

Bank Leumi 
(Israel) 

Bank Hapoaliro 
(India) 



HONG KONG 

Hong Kong and 
Shanghai Bank 

Sharps, Pixley, 

Wardiey " 

Jardine, Mat hem n 

InchcapeCo. 

ft Lin kok Bank 

Overseas Chinese Bank 

Charter 
Consolidated 

,Siine Darby 



Figure 4. British Gold and Diamond Syndicate 



■s 



102 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



103 



money (see Section 6 below) — but is heavily interlocked since 
the days of the official British opium trade. 

One of Standard and Chartered' s directors is the current Lord 
lnchcape, of Inchcape and Co. and the Peninsular and Orient 
Steam Navigation, the latter dominating ocean freight in the Far 
East. Both companies are heavily represented on the HongShang 
board of directors. Tnchcape's father wrote the notorious 1923 
Inchcape Report recommending continued British sponsorship of 
Che opium traffic — despite the outrage of the rest of the League 
of Nations — in order to "protect the revenues'* of then-British 
colonics in the Far East. 

This example also indicates why the London gold pool's dirty 
money operations are a worldwide, not merely a Far Eastern, 
problem. Mocatta Metals, a subsidiary of Standard and Chart - 
ered's Mocatta and Goldsmid, operates one of New York's big- 
gest dirty money laundering operations. 

Mocatta Metal's current chairman. Dr. Henry Jarecki, has 
been under investigation for years for illegal activities, although 
no indictment has yet been handed down. According to European 
intelligence sources, .Tarecki's dirty money operation helps fund 
the activities of the Mossad. Israel's foreign secret intelligence 
service, in New York City, including assassination teams. 

Jarecki is no small fry: he is a frequent gold columnist for 
British financial publications such as EurortiQney. and rated a 
lengthy profile in the September 1978 issue of Fortune magazine. 
Nonetheless, he is eminently suited for the role of bag-man for 
Israeli intelligence hit squads. Jarecki began running 
drugs as a small-timfi pusher on the University of Michigan 
campus in 1950-51. In 1952, he spent six months in jail for sus- 
pected espionage in East Berlin. According to published sources, 
approximately half of Jarecki 1 s present staff of 2R gold traders 
started out in the same Harvard Psychology Department that 
featured LSD-pushers Dr. Timothy Leary and "Baba Ram Dass" 
in the early 1960s. (?) 

Midland Bank stands behind bulh Standard and Chartered and 
Mocatta and Goldsmid, with a 20 percent ownership of Standard 
and Chartered; it also wholly owns another London gold pool 
bank. Samuel Montagu. Sir Mark Turner is a director of both 



Midland Bank and Samuel Montagu. The Montagu family, 
heavily intermarried with the Rothschilds, Montefiores, and 
Samuels, is the cream of Britain's Court Jews. One of their 
proteges is HongShang board member Philip de Zulueta. 

N.M, Rothschild and Sons, which opened up operations in Hong 
Kong in 1375 to take advantage of the newly liberalized gold trad- 
ing laws, and Johnson Matthey, the remaining members of the 
London gold pool, are also interlocked several times over with 
both the HongShang and the major South African gold producers, 
Consolidated Gold Fields and Anglo-American who control 
between them 90 percent of South Africa's gold output. 

(For further details see Section 7 and 8.) 



The diamond black market 

Second in importance in the money-laundering process is the 
world diamonds market, worth $5 billion annually at wholesale 
value, whose single presiding manager is Sir Harry Oppen- 
heimer of De Beers Corporation. Oppenheimer is also the chair- 
man of the larger South African gold producers, Anglo-Ameri- 
can. The Anglo-American and De Beers complex runs the Hong 
Kong side of the money-laundering diamonds operation on two 
levels — wholesale and retail. De Beers runs 85 percent of the 
wholesale diamonds market; through his intimate Israeli 
connections, Oppenheimer also runs the Hong Kong diamond 
market. 

WHY DIAMONDS 

There are two points of special relevance for diamonds to the 
international heroin traffic. The first is that, in value relative to 
size and weight, diamonds are the closest approximation to 
heroin as a store of value for furtive use. Secondly, theDe Beers- 
controlled international diamond cartel operates according to a 
pyramidal structure identical to that of the world heroin trade. 

The use of expatriate ethnic networks for the dirtier side of the 
operations is also homologous, except that in the case of dia- 




104 



DOPE, INC. 




HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



105 



mends, Jews take the place of Ch'ao Chou Chinese. Not coinci- 
dentally. there is almost as little publicly available Information 
on international diamonds trade as on the heroin traffic. 

South Africa's largest producer. De Beers, was the 1888 crea- 
tion of Rothschild legman Cecil Rhodes; in 1929, the company 
underwent reorganization by Sir Ernest Oppenheimer, of the 
Anglo-American family. De Beers controls the Central Selling 
Organization (CSO), which handles 85 percent of international 

diamond trade. 

At ten * sights" each year, 300 clients purchase stones from the 
CSO. The list of these select clients is secret. Following their pur- 
chase by the secret list of clients, the diamonds are sent to cutting 
centers for further preparation. The two dominant cutting cen- 
ters are Antwerp and Ashqelon, in Israel. Antwerp's diamond- 
cutting and related trade is financed by the Banque Bruxelles- 
Lambert. controlled by the Lambert family, the Belgian cousins 
of the Rothschilds. Israel's (and also New York's) diamond busi- 
ness is financed by Bank Leumi. (8) 

Within the individual centers, dealers trade among themselves 
on such exchanges as the New York Diamond Dealers Club, the 
Ram at Gan in Tel Aviv, and the Antwerp Diamond Bourse. No 
written records are kept of any transactions on these exchanges ; 
the agreements are sealed with a handshake. No aspects of this 
trade are available for scrutiny by law enforcement agencies, 
even under American law, before the diamonds reach the jewelry 

store level. 

Hong Kong's own substantial wholesale diamond market is the 
virtual monopoly of the Union Bank of Israel ; this bank is wholly 
owned by Israel's largest finance house. Bank Leumi- Bank 
Leumi, in turn, is under the control of Barclays Bank, on whose 
board sits Harry Oppenheimer and the Oppenheimer family 
itself. Bank Leumi' s own chairman is Ernst Israel Japhet, of the 
Charterhouse Japhet family whose fortune derived from the 
official British opium trade during the nineteenth century ! 

Ten times a year, representatives from the Ramat Gan, Tet 
Aviv's diamond exchange, go with Union Bank financing to the 
De Beers Central Selling Organization "sights" in London, and 
purchase one-third of the world diamond output. 



Like the Peking-British-eontrollcd Ch'ao Chou Chinese net- 
works in the Far East, Britain's Zionist financiers are a cult unto 
themselves, with their own family networks, cults, and language. 
New York's diamond market consists, at the lower levels, mainly 
of members of the extremist Hasidic sects resident in the area. 
This exotic feature of the diamond traffic achieved public notor- 
iety after several unexplained thefts and murders occurred in the 
dia mond trade during 1 977 . 

Although there is an apparent division of labor between the 
Hofjuden precious metals and precious stones channels of the 
world dirty money operation, the various firms involved are so 
closely intermarried, interlocked, and interowned with the major 
dirty money banks, that the working of the dirty money appara- 
tus is totally integrated. 

A case in point is Canada, the dumping ground for all aspects of 
Dope, Incorporated that feed into the United States. The Bank of 
Nova Scotia, for example^isjboth the major gold dealer (and 
hanker for the second largest gold dealer, Noranda Mines) , and 
the major dirty money operator in the Caribbean, 

The Nova Scotia is notorious for bribing its way into new 
branch offices in the Caribbean, violating local currency laws, 
running flight capital against currency restrictions, "investing" 
in local businesses known to be intelligence fronts, and so forth. 
Nova Scotia's branch network in the Caribbean is the largest of 
any bank in the world, save Barclays which has a similar pedi- 
gree. Gold is a specially useful medium for the special case of the 
Caribbean, where official restrictions make some bank transfers 
difficult. Conveniently, Nova Scotia leads the Toronto gold 
market. 

The other leading gold market operator in Toronto is Noranda 
Mines: its chairman Powis is a member of the board of directors 
of the Bank of Nova Scotia. Powis is also a member of the board 
of Sun Life Assurance, the Rothschilds' insurance company. 



A 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



107 



5 



Hong Kong: 
The World's Drug Capital 



Illegal drugs are the biggest business in the Far East— and by 
a close margin the biggest business in the world — but in Hong 
Kong, drugs do not merely dominate the economy: they are the 
economy. A look at the British colony of Hong Kong gives us a pic- 
ture in microcosm of the drug-dirty money economy worldwide. 

First, start with the fact that Hong Kong is the most drug- 
ridden place in the world, per capita. Official British police esti- 
mates have it that 10 percent of Hong Kong's population or 5OO t OG0 
people, are hardcore addicts. Unofficial estimates run this figure 
up to 50 percent. A safe, conservative estimate is 20 percent or 1 
million people — more than New York City's addicts. Assuming 
the daily cost of a serious opium or morphine habit in Hong Kong 
to run to about $10 U.S., the annual cash-flow of retail drug sales 
at HongShang's back porch runs to about $3.7 billion. 

As the region's central bank, the Hong Kong and Shanghai 
bank provides banknotes to its clients, among other services. Any 
reasonable estimate of Hong Kong's dirty money operations 
including the retail drug trade, as well as the notorious bribes to 
police officers, international drug wholesaling based on the 



island, illegal gambling, and other forms of illicit transactions, 
must yield a shockingly large number. With a drugged- up popula- 
tion of that size, the life of Hong Kong's population must be organ- 
ized around illegal activity. 

Shifting focus to New York City for a moment indicates the 
magnitude of the world's drug-centered illegal economy. Most 
estimates put the city's addict, population at 500,000 <and another 
250,000 nationally). Assuming a $50 per day habit is average — 
which the federal estimates apparently do — this addict popula- 
tion must obtain $9 billion a year out of New York City's faltering 
economy to meet its needs; 

Where does it get S9 billion? Not substantially through well- 
paying jobs. With rare exceptions that is physically impossible. 
Not from muggings; however bad matters seem, neither 500.000 
muggings, nor a combination of muggings and burglaries, take 
place daily in New York City. Even prostitution could contribute 
only a small portion of the $9 billion annual habit of New York 
City's addicts. 

Where docs the money come from? From organized crime 
activity: the numbers racket, bookmaking, protection rackets, 
autotheft, stolen auto parts distribution, prostitution, pornog- 
raphy, arson-for-hire, and similar occupations. Drug addiction 
could not possibly exist without organized crime to provide the 
means of financing addiction. 

The National Education Television's recent series on the nar- 
cotics trade demonstrated irrcmonstrable nerve by repeatedly 
citing the view of the (well-paid) Royal Police of Hong Kong that 
the' narcotics traffic will always exist as long as there is a 
market. The market for the worst form of human misery not only 
in the most centrally organized of any market in the world, but 
could not possibly exist in any other way. If the demand provokes 
the supply, one might ask, why do narcotics wholesalers produce 
roughly ten times what addicts can consume annually? 

Hong Kong is the capital of the world's illegal drug economy. 
This explains some of its most notable characteristics: the big- 
gest illegal market in dirty money, drugs, and gold; the world's 
biggest liquidity ratio; and the world's biggest bribe rate. 

The annual exports of the colony this year will be no more than 



106 



108 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



109 



$fi billion: as we have seen, it will take in more than $10 billion in 
drug and drug-related financial activity. There is no credence to 
the myth that Hong Kong's economy is booming on the basis of 

cheap electronics and textiles. 



The illegal market 



Apart from retailing and wholesaling of drugs, huge sectors of 
the island's economy are indirectly dependent on the drug traffic. 
Exemplary is the booming gold market, whose turnover doubled 
from 305 tons in 197tS to 600 tons (worth $43.6 billion) in 1977. Some 
several hundreds of millions of dollars of gold go directly to the 
Golden Triangle; hundreds of millions more absorb and hide the 
profits of drug traffickers across the Far East. 

This is the place where the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank 
smuggled gold openly for a quarter-century, rigs the stock mar- 
ket in full public view, and promotes Chinese smugglers to the 
upper reaches of Hong Kong society. Nothing moves in the colony 
without the knowledge and approval of the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Bank and interlocked old-line opium trading com- 
panies. They set the island up as an opium center in the 1820s 
when it was bare rock, and they run it now. 

A Soviet commentator, M.A. Andreyev, wrote in 1974: 

"In the Far East Hong Kong is the main center of illegal 
operations in gold and foreign exchange. Large-scale illegal 
transactions are carried on regularly there in Filipino pesos, 
Indonesian rupees, Malay and Singapore dollars, Burmese kyats, 
Thai bahts. South Vietnamese piastres. Cambodian riels, Laotian 
kips, Chinese yuans, British pounds and U.S. dollars. The foreign 
exchange transactions in Hong Kong daily involve several billion 
U.S. dollars (the figure is a gross underestimate, even for 1974 — 
ed.) . with the larger part of these transactions carried on by busi- 
nessmen from Southeast Asian countries. On a lesser scale such 
illegal transactions in foreign exchange and gold are conducted 
in Singapore and Bangkok .... 

"The overseas Chinese bourgeoisie actively finances the gold 



and foreign currency operations in Hong Kong and on the out- 
skirts of Southeast Asia. Ever since the end of the Second World 
War much of the migrating capital from China has been used in 
the illegal gold and foreign exchange operations in Hong Kong. 
U.S. economists note that in the mid-1950s most of these opera- 
tions in the Hong Kong black market were handled by Chinese 
brokers. Chinese businessmen are even more active in the gold 
and foreign exchange black markets in the Southeast Asian coun- 
tries. Regarding the part played by Chinese financiers in the gold 
and foreign exchange market in the Philippines, a Hong Kong 
publication (Wong Po-Shang, The Influx of Chinese Capital into 
Hongkong since 1931 — ed.) wrote: 'Besides remitting through 
the regular free market, these people have made transfers of 
their money by trade transactions and devious means as well as 
by out and out smuggling. This is said to be the case with money 
from the Philippines where large underground organizations are 
said to be in operation with the object of helping to smuggle 
funds, gold bullion. and valuables out of the country.' " O) 

Andreyev adds: "Three types of transactions predominate 
among the innumerable and varied black market gold and for- 
eign exchange operations. These are, Tirst, the acquisition in the 
local market of gold and foreign exchange (mainly U.S. dollars) 
smuggled into the country concerned for local currency which 
devalues quickly. Next, the smuggling of local currency over- 
seas, to countries with a relatively stable currency, for the subse- 
quent exchange of that currency for gold or hard currency. 
Whereas these types of transactions involve the physical move- 
ment of gold and bank-notes from one country to another and are, 
thereby, closely connected with smuggling (in all Southeast 
Asian countries there are strict limitations on the inflow and 
outflow of gold, foreign exchange, and local currency), the third 
type of black market gold and foreign exchange operation is prac- 
tically not linked with the movement of bank-notes or gold from 
country to country . . . (but rather with obtaining) funds in the 
black market from local businessmen desiring to build up large 
overseas hard currency or gold accounts. 
"The existence of organizational links between numerous 



Jl 



110 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



111 



Chinese companies in the different Southeast Asian countries 
makes it possible to export Chinese capital from country to 
country even without the physical movement of that capital. 
Take, for instance, a Chinese firm with branches in Hong Kong, 
Singapore, Djakarta, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok. It can, if it so 
desires, pay for its operations conducted in its behalf by its 
Bangkok branch not through official channels but by transferring 
the necessary sum of money in foreign exchange to that branch's 
overseas bank account. In this case the Bangkok branch pays for 
these operations from its local currency fund and in exchange 
gets an addition to its hard currency account abroad." (2) 



Highest liquidity ratio 

Hong Kong's drug traffic and the region wide illegal dealings 
surrounding it undoubtedly account for the colony's chronic 
excess of liquidity (see International Currency Review, vol. 10. 
no. 4, for a descriptive analysis). Ycar-to-ycar growth in money 
supply as of April 1&78 was 25 percent; however, some of that is 
attributable to inflows of foreign currency related to the opening 
of an offshore Hong Kong bond market- Over the past 15 years, 
the huge volume of external lending tended to suppress the other- 
wise huge money supply needed to finance several billions of ille- 
gal activity on an island whose reported money supply is now 
about $4.5 billion. U.S. Offshore business booked through Hong 
Kong was formerly so large that the liquidity ratio of the banks 
(taking into account both cash and rediscounted offshore bills of 
exchange) stood at an extraordinary 50 percent. Most of the local 
money supply was in the form of cash. (3) 

In effect, the cash-based local drug traffic in Hong Kong 

created a reserve base for offshore lending to finance the drug 

traffic in the rest of Asia \ Since 1975, however, the development 

of the offshore bond market and the influx of foreign capital has 

led to the reduction of the 1 iquidi ty ratio to a still-cxtr aordi nary 43 

percent. 
Understandably, evenpuWic business practice in Hong Kong is 

politically corrupt. The HongShang's entirely open role in gold 



■;■• 

- 
- 



smuggling between Hong Kong and Macao was noted above. The 
London Financial Times of July 4, 1977 reported a 1B77 scandal in 
which Whcclock Marden, a trading company listed on the Hong 
Kong Stock Exchange, provoked an investigation by the Securi- 
ties Commission, after a "modestly optimistic statement" was 

followed by "revelation of huge profits drop, dividend cut, write- 
offs and liquidity problems." 

The Financial Times wrote, "insider trading is rampant . . . . 
These flurries may be attributable to leaks by clerks, secretaries 
and translators, rather than to insider trading at the top. But who 
can blame these lesser lights when Mr John Marden is Still Chair- 
man of Wheelock Marden, still sits on the board of the Hongkong 
and Shanghai Bank, is still a pillar of 'respectable* colonial 
society?" (4) 



Biggest bribe rate 



Law enforcement sources report that the "lesser lights" are 
generally taken care of through the world's most efficient 
bribery system. At least $1 billion is passed out to Hong Kong's 
officialdom. 

According to a report in the same London Financial Times 
article cited above: 

" 'Perhaps a billion dollars a year flow into the syndicates,' 
admits Mr Jack Cater, Hong Kong's head of the Independent 
Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) started in February, 
The sum gives one clue to the size of the problem the ICAC has to 
tackle. Another, Mr Cater points out. is the extent of official and 
in particular police corruption in the Colony. With membership 
varying from 10 to 300. there are at least 28 identifiable public 
sector syndicates, and 25 of them are in the Royal Hong Kong 
Police Force .... 

"The ICAC has considered about 9,500 reports on corruption, 
about 85 percent of them involving Her Majesty's service. 
Reports of police crime (4.000) have regularly accounted for 
more than half the reports of government crime .... Mr Cater 

has failed to bring hack the many wealthy and mostly Chinese 



i_ 




112 



DOPE, INC. 



non-commissioned police officers who left Hong Kong before the 
ICAC cast its net." (5) (The largest concentration of the last- 
mentioned is in Vancouver, British Columbia, where they are 
still active in the narcotics traffic, according to law enforcement 
specialists.) 

The SI billion figure cited can be counted as overhead on the 
narcotics and related drug traffic in the area. Earlier, the local 
Hong Kong retail drug traffic was estimated at about $4 billion, 
and the area's drug wholesaling business at $3 million and more. 
Assuming that bribes of police and other of ficials — what most of 
the SI billion cited represents — amount to no more than 10-15 per- 
cent of the volume of drug traffic, retail and wholesale combined, 
then the estimates for the size of the drug traffic already made 
are unquestionably on the low side. The $1 billion in Hong Kong 
corruption annually estimated hy the authorities — and it is not 
likely thai this estimate is excessive — indicates drug traffic in 
and through Hong Kong of close to S10 billion, by ordinary reason- 
ing. That figure, of course, does not include bribes to custom* 
officials at Bangkok. Rangoon. Singapore, and elsewhere, let 
alone bribes to Thai and Burmese army officials. 

To the extent that limited efforts at giving the appearance of 
honesty have come to pass in Hong Kong, both the police and the 
Chinese expatriate community have risen in revolt against them. 
Last year police rioted uncontrollably against so-called anticor- 
ruption efforts. The July 4, 1977 Financial Times account notes 
that the crusade "enraged Chinese business in particular .... In 
a rare display, the Chinese Manufacturers Association (pro-Pek- 
ins) and the Kowloon Chamber of Commerce held a mass rally to 
protest against 'interference in Chinese ancient customs.' " (&) 

Such ancient customs indicate the nature of Hong Kong and its 
bank. According to custom, no bribes are solicited, none offered. 
Instead, couriers make their rounds through Royal Hong Kong 
Police and other official buildings early each Monday morning, 
leaving an envelope containing between one and five hundred- 
dollar bills in the top drawer of every desk. Any policeman who 
refuses to take his envelope will probably be dead within 48 
hours, according to law enforcement officials. 



6 



The Peking Connection 



Some of them (U.S. troops in Vietnam) are trying 
opium. And we are helping them. . . . Do you remember 
when the West imposed opium on us? They fought us with 
opium. And we are going to fight them with their own 
weapons. . . . The effect this demoralization is going to 
have on the United States will he far greater than anyone 
realizes. 

Chinese Prime Minister Chou En-lai, 
in conversation with Egyptian 
President Nasser, June 1965 (1) 



Only since Henry Kissinger's 1 972 trip to China has the Chinese 
role in the world opium trade been out of the headlines. The 
American, European, Japanese, and Soviet authorities had long 
insisted that Peking was a major primary producer and exporter 
of opium and its derivatives, and the British, under extreme 



113 



Jk 



114 



DOPE, INC. 



pressure from abroad, had to assent. The highlights of the public 
record to this effect follow below in this section. However, even 
the most compelling documentation of Peking's role in opium 
production misses the point. 

Red China's revenues from opium exports, as wr will demon- 
strate, are a mere SBOO million annually. Peking makes its real 
profits in the wholesaling, retailing, and financing of the opium 
traffic, mainly through Hong Kong, where the big money is 
made. As noted in Section 4, the People's Republic of China has 
taken active part in the gold smuggling side of drug financing in 
the orient since 1950. 

But since approximately the time of the Sino-Soviet split in the 
late 1950s, Peking has deliberately integrated its external finan- 
cial affairs with the top British drug-running firms in Hong Kong, 
and the expatriate Chinese drug wholesaling and dirty money net- 
works throughout the orient. Peking's financial policy coincides 
with strategic commitment — stated unambiguously by the late 
Premier Chou En-la i -* to the full-scale use of the opium weapon 
against the White Devils of the United States. 

Peking's financial dependence on Hong Kong is a matter of 
public record. On Oct. 2, 197S. Chase Manhattan Bank's news- 
letter East-West Markets estimated that the financial flow into 
mainland China this year (excluding exports) through Hong 
Kong would total $2.5 billion, up from SI. 3 billion in 1977. This 
$2.5 billion includes income on Peking's foreign investments in 
Hong Kong and other South-east Asian centers, plus remittances 
back to relatives on the mainland from Chinese expatriates. 

Apart from the purely financial offtake, most of Red China's 
exports pass through Hong Kong. In 197G, Peking earned $2.4 
billion in exports through the British colony, or sufficient to cover 
40 percent of the PRC's total import requirements for that year. 
Peking does all its banking through Hong Kong, largely through 
the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, and secondarily through the 
Standard and Chartered Bank. Peking conducts all its invest- 
ments abroad through Hong Kong. That dependency is not 
merely established, but is increasing markedly. 

The astonishing $2.5 billion financial reflow back to the PRC 
this year represents the fruits of Peking's 20-year-old program of 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



115 



moving into the higher echelons of the drug traffic, by agreement 
with the British. Combining American and Soviet sources, we 
will demonstrate that this estimation of foreign drug revenues 
through Hong Kong is a good approximation of Peking's income 
from drug wholesaling, retailing, and financing, as well as 
gambling, real estate, and other shady joint ventures with British 
and expatriate Chinese finance, closely related to the drug trade 
proper. 

Even the $2.5 billion figure does not include the $800 million 
Peking earns as a primary opium producer. To estimate 
Peking's gross revenues from the drug traffic, an additional sum 
of several hundred millions of dollars must be added: the over- 
head cost of maintaining one of the largest and best-financed 
intelligence and sabotage operations in the world, the Chinese 
Communist Intelligence Service (CCIS). 

In summary,- we will demonstrate that the People's Republic of 
China is a 40 to 60 partner with the British oligarchy in the Far 
Eastern narcotics trade. 



OLD TIES GROW STRONGER 

Peking's current policy represents a direct line of continuity 
between the current regime and Britain's 19th century corrupt 
collaborators in China. Correspondingly, the fortunes of the 
Maoist Great Han Chauvinist faction in Peking arc linked to the 
opium trade and the British oligarchy. They have staked China's 
economy — its capacity to import urgently needed foreign goods 
— on the opium trade. 

In consequence, the factional importance of the opium issue 
inside China is enormous. One unmistakable indication that 
reached Western view is the peculiar case of the Chinese-made 
film The Opium War, now distributed throughout the West. The 
Opium War uses the 19th century events as a parable for contem- 
porary China. The villains of the film are not so much the British, 
but the corrupt Chinese who enable the British to win the Opium 
Wars, by preventing the Emperor and his loyal intelligence chief 
Lin Tse-hsu from repelling the White Devils. The film was 
initially banned by Madame Mao and the rest of the "Gang of 
Four," allegedly because hero Lin Tse-hsu was an oblique refer- 






116 



DOPE, INC, 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



117 



ence to Gang of Four opponent Teng Hsiao-p'ing. Some 
observers, however, have speculated that the banning was 
related to a raging political battle over Peking involvement in 
drugs. 

What political fireworks ensue every time a Japanese trade 
delegation, export-financing agreements in hand, shows up in 
Peking, can only be imagined- Japan's economic approach to 
China, embodied in the recent Sino-Japanese treaty, offers the 
PRC an alternative to dependence on drugs and the British. Cor- 
respondingly, the Japanese approach gives the anti-opium group 
in the PRC powerful factional arguments. 

Despite the Japanese initiative, however, Peking's policy has 
taken dramatic new steps toward economic integration with 
British Hong Kong. 

Among the first major foreign credit arrangements the Peking 
government has accepted was a $200 million deposit last summer 
in the Bank of China by a consortium of banks led by Standard 
and Chartered. Then, in October 1978, the venerable opium 
traders .Tardine Matheson concluded a S300 million agreement 
with PRC firms in Hong Kong to develop a real estate complex 
adjoining a branch station of Hong Kong's new mass transit 
system. Apparently, the joint investment came as part of a 
package deal including the largest-ever export package to China, 
also announced at the beginning of October by Jardine Matheson, 
which handled the negotiations on behalf of a consortium of 
British firms. The $300 million real estate development in Hong 
Kong's New Territories includes an 80 percent stake on the part 
of two PRC-owned firms in Hong Kong, the Sun Company and the 
Kui Kwing Company; a 15 percent stake from the Hong Kong 
Land Company Ltd,, headed by Jardine Matheson's cx-chairman 
H. N, L. Keswick; and a 5 percent share from Jardine Matheson 
itself. <2) 

The extraordinary leap in Peking's investment income in and 
through Hong Kong, and the haste in opening new operations in 
common with the British, including Peking's official entry into 
the Hong Kong gold market, mean one thing: Peking and London 
are jointly preparing a massive expansion of the opium and 
heroin traffic. Apparently, the market research that Dope. 



Incorporated conducts in the United States shows thai the push 
for decriminalization of drug use could open the U.S. market up 
tike a clam. 
In this section, we will show : 

(1) The content of Peking's activities in Hong Kong; 

(2) The documented record of Peking support for the drug 
traffic: 

<3> The activities of the grossly underestimated Chinese Com- 
munist Intelligence Service (CCIS). Peking intelligence and the 
expatriate, largely Ch'ao Chou Chinese networks who handle the 
drug traffic are the same entity. As wc demonstrated in Section 3, 
the expatriate networks operate under financial control from 
London. In fact, the entire operation of these networks runs 
through Peking-London joint ventures. 

Then, in the next section, we will report how the Royal Institute 
of International Affairs — which makes policy for the HongShang 
and the rest of the British banking establishment — negotiated 
the continuation of the old Anglo-Chinese drug traffic at the end 
of World War II. 



"Communist fat cats" 

London's current view of Hong Kong's relationship to the main- 
land is rosy. "By its acceptance of the status quo, China shows 
that it is happy U> keep the Kong Kong show on the road," wrote 
the London Financial Times. "The existence of the communist 
banks (in Hong Kong) is an indication of the continuing commit- 
ment, as the establishment of a machinery manufacturing plant 
on Tsing Yi island, one purpose of which is to modify mainland 
machinery which fails to meet the requirements of potential 
buyers in the region. 

"This sort of commitment is understood by even the most 
nervous businessmen and helps remove the cloud of uncertainty 
which would otherwise start to gather. ... It may be the final 
irony of the Hong Kong paradox that to ensure Hong Kong's well- 
being, Peking will have to increase its own investment and 
participation in the colony." (3) 



118 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



119 



The same Financial Times report then specified what it meant 
by increased Peking participation in the colony, citing the 
exemplary case of a leading Kong Kong and Macao entre- 
preneur, Mr. Stanley Ho: 

"It is a widely accepted allegation that Mr Ho and his partner, 
Mr Henry Fok, started their fortunes at the time of the Korean 
War running strategic materials into China. Certainly, both men 
became prominent during that era of smuggling. Indeed, Mr Ho 
seems to have weathered the 1967 riots (following the Cultural 
Revolution — ed.) without taking sides, and he even managed to 
bolster his friendship with Peking authorities. The relationship. 
and Mr Ho's wealth, can be traced to the award of China's sand 
monopoly in Hong Kong to his partnership with Mr Fok. Later, in 
1962. Mr Ho was awarded the 25-year gambling franchise in 
Macao, where he had worked during World War H for a Japanese 
company. It is fair to say that the gambling franchise was a 
present from Peking.' * 

The Financial Times could have cited other cases, like the 
Shaw Brothers (Anglicized Chinese name), Hong Kong's 
premiere producers of Kung Fu films for distribution throughout 
the world. Apart from their chain of theaters in Chinese com- 
munities across the world, the Shaw brothers control most of 
Hong Kong's prostitution. (4) 

In any corner of the world but Hong Kong, Peking's relation- 
ship to the British elite — Peking-owned businessmen and British 
bankers rub shoulders in the Hong Kong Jockey Club and other 
havens of Hong Kong's elite — would be a source of international 
outrage, 

Peking controls the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce in 
the colony, the same organization that organized riots in 1977 to 
protest the Independent Commission Against Corruption's 
"interference in the ancient Chinese practice" of bribing police 
officers. Its chairman, Dr. Wang Kwan-cheng, is a frequent 
visitor to the mainland, and has been identified in intelligence 
reports as a PRC political intelligence operative. Wang's position 
has been described as "the most prestigious in the colony, along 
with the British Governor-General." Among other things, Wang 
is among the wealthiest men in Hong Kong, with interests in the 



*• 



retail trade, restaurants, real estate, and transportation. Accord- 
ing to his entry in Who's Who in Hong Kong, Wang is "chairman 
of the Board of Directors of Magna Development Company, 
Chinese Arts and Crafts {Hong Kong),' f and a member of the 
Hong Kong Jockey Club. 

The vice-chairman of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce is C. 
H. Kao. who, like Macao gambling czar Stanley Ho. amassed 
great wealth by running strategic materials into China during the 
Korean War. Other known Peking agents include Ho Yin, chair- 
man of the Macao Chamber of Commerce, and Macao's repre- 
sentative to the PRC's People's Congress, the organization that 
centralizes the political activities of Chinese expatriates through 
Peking (see below) . Another is K. C. Jay (or Choi), formerly with 
the Bank of China in Peking, and currently a resident financial 
intelligence operative and currency specialist for the Bank of 
China in Hong Kong. 

As Richard Deacon, the British author of The Chinese Secret 
Service, puts it: "What is abundantly clear is that Peking has a 
great reservoir of strength and talent among its supporters in 
Hong Kong. Its Secret Service activities there are low-key, as in 
many other centers, and have avoided clashes with the author- 
ities. Indeed the only espionage scandals to break in the colony 
for several years past are attributable to other powers alto- 
gether, some of them at least manufactured by the Chinese to em- 
barrass another nation. Perhaps the subtlest of these was when in 
1973 a Chinese Intelligence agent tipped off the British about two 
K.G.B. agents, who had been taught Chinese at the University of 
Vladivostok, arriving in Hong Kong. In their possession were 
found documents containing valuable information about the 
Soviet espionage network in the Far East. ' ' 

And as Deacon remarks, "There may even be some unofficial 
contacts on an intelligence level between the British and Chinese 
secret services. . . ." (5) 

Deacon also reports Chat when China's narcotics smuggling 
operations were at their height, they were controlled by the 
Central External Liaison Department and the Ministry of 
Investigation. According to Deacon, the major secret agents 
were employed through the pro-Peking China Sailors' Union in 



s 



A 



120 



DOPE, INC, 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



121 



Hong Kong. The union was responsible for bringing in a large 
shipment of heroin discovered by the New York police in January 
1973. "The International United Front operations, controlled by 
the CFLD, included drug-pushing with the aim of creating disrup- 
tion and demoralization in carefully selected target areas 
indicated by the CFLD." 

Deacon adds: '*From Italian sources, diplomatic and other- 
wise, comes confirmation that the heroin traffic between Hong 
Kong and Europe is master-minded by Chinese secret agents. It 
is even suspected that there may have been undercover deals be- 
tween the Chinese and the Mafia for distribution of the stuff." 

Deacon identifies Keng Biao as the chief of the cited Central 
External Liaison Department. Whether Keng, in fact, coordi- 
nates Chinese drug-pushing cannot be independently corrobor- 
ated at this time. Since the 1974 publication of Deacon's account, 
however, Keng was elevated to the Politburo, China's highest 
political body, in August 1977, In August 197S, he toured some of 
the prime mariiuana-growing regions of the Caribbean, includ- 
ing Jamaica. Keng also stopped in the island of Malta, the old 
base of the drug-pushing Maltese order, for unexplained reasons, 
on bis return home. 

The renowned Mr. Stanley Ho, mentioned above, who as con- 
troller of Macao gambling is the proprietor of what law enforce- 
ment agencies consider the world's dirtiest financial operation, is 
a bona fide member of Hong Kong's social elite. Macao's 
relationship to Peking became a public scandal in 1974, when the 
revolutionary Portuguese government offered to cede the colony 
to PRC. The Peking government refused, because Macao is much 

more useful to Peking as a source of illicit foreign exchange earn- 
ings through opium and other forms of smuggling than as a 
people's commune. (€) 

Only in rare instances have the links between the Hong Kong 
opium firms, British intelligence, and the Chinese Communist 
Intelligence Service come to public light. Where they have, the 
results put the best pulp thrillers to shame. One illustration is 
the story of the luckless Rennie family, Scots traders who sold 
their operation to Jardine Matheson in 1975. The Rennies are old 
Africa and Asia hands both in merchant ventures and the British 



colonial service, with major operations in South Africa, through 
Kennies Consolidated Holdings Ltd- (7) A relative, Sir John 
Rennie, resigned as head of Britain's foreign secret intelligence 
organization DI6. Normally the identity of the chief of DI6 — "M" 
in the James Bond movies — is one of Britain's best-guarded 
secrets. But Rennie's identity came to light after his son, Charles 
Tatham Ogilvy Rennie, was arrested for heroin trafficking in 
London on January 15, 1973. Official British press censorship, the 
infamous "D-notices" sent to newspaper editors, delayed press 
coverage of the blue-blooded drug bust until February 7, 1973, 
when London's Evening Standard reported that "the previously 
unnamed son of the head of DI6, who is facing drugs charges in 
London, is Charles Tatham Ogilvy Rennie." 

Significantly, on the same day West Germany's Stern 
magazine blew Sir John Rennie's cover — in a dispatch from 
Hong Kong, the base of the Rennie family's business partners. 
Jardine Matheson. Stern magazine's information could have 
come either from Rennie family channels through Jardine 
Matheson, or through the Chinese Secret Service, or both. Ac- 
cording to a Chinese Communist intelligence source cited by a 
British author, "In the case of Sir John Rennie I believe the 
Chinese were so cautious that they refused to accept their own 
suspicion (that Rennie was head of DIB) for a long time. 
Confirmation finally came when Sir John's son was arrested. 
They did not have far to look as his son's wife used Gerrard Street 
— almost a 100 percent Chinese quarter of London — as a rendez- 
vous for obtaining Chinese heroin/' The British author, Richard 
Deacon, commented, "I suspect that some of the leakages to the 
press of this information came from the Chinese, who have a very 
high regard for the British Secret Service." 

Of course, nothing is proven; British author Deacon guards his 
version of this story with an elaborate description of the Chine.se 
Communist Intelligence Service's purported method of discover- 
ing the chiefs of British intelligence branches through a careful 
reading of Who's Who. Nonetheless, we have the fact that the 
head of DI6 was a member of a family with intimate business ties 
to the core of the Hong Kong drug traffic; that his son dealt in 
narcotics through Peking intelligence agents in London; and that 



^k 



122 



DOPE. INC 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



123 



the ultimate public announcement of his son's arrest came via 
Hong Kong sources, either British or Chinese. 

More recent events provide a useful epilogue. On September 2, 
1978, the London Economist reported, "One after another, top 
South African businessmen have been falling foul of the country's 
strict foreign exchange laws. This week's man in the spotlight 
was Mr Charles Fiddian Green, chief executive of the country's 
Leading transport conglomerate, Kennies ... He was convicted of 
currency offenses on Aug. 29 and fined Rand 10,0(10. 

"Last week Mr Gordon Rennie (Sir John's relative and Rennie 
Consolidated chairman) cut his throat and wrists after police 
came to talk to him. He went to hospital and was charged with 
currency offenses. Four other Rennies executives have been 
questioned by police; another has already been charged with 
currency smuggling; and two, including Mr Laurence Parry, 
have been sacked after apparently leaving the country." (8) 

Also significant is the implication of Laurence Parry in the 
recent Rennies scandal; Parry was chief of Rennies Holiday Inn 
franchise in Swaziland and Lesotho, where rich South Africans, 
spend weekends gambling and watching fleshy floorshows that 
are prohibited in puritan South Africa. Rennies. since 1975 a 53 
percent owned subsidiary of Jardine Matheson, has an almost 
classical dirty money profile, apart from its casino-gambling and 
fleshpot operations, Rennie's subsidiary in the security field. 

Fidelity Guards, is South Africa's leader in armored car services 
and payroll preparations, including its own computer facilities — 
tailor-made for the currency smuggling operations of which 
Rennies has just been accused. In addition, Rennies owns its own 
air and cargo shipping facilities, making it the leading transport 
group in South Africa. (9) 

At the time of Rennies' merger with Jardine Matheson. South 
Africa's magazine Management wrote, "For both, it's a getting 
together of like people, like lifestyles, and remarkably similar 
management philosophies. Good solid Scots tradition abounds in 
both groups/* Apart from its affinity to the leading Hong Kong 
dynasty, Rennies is part of the South African mining estab- 
lishment. Two of its board members, the just-arrested Charles 
Fiddian-Green and Fred G . Wolmarans, were previously senior 



officials of Consolidated Gold Fields of South Africa. Consol- 
idated Gold, as quoted extensively in Section 4 above, wrote the 
book on currency smuggling — literally. 

THE MONEY LINKS 

The PRC's financial intimacy with Hong Kong is a matter of 
public record. (Less public is the PRC's relationship to the 
Bangkok connection noted above, the seven-year residency of 
drug financier Chin Sophonpanich in Peking.) 

The PRC's roughly $3 billion in foreign exchange reserves are 
banked through HongShang, Standard and Chartered Bank, and * 
other British banks through Hong Kong. In 1976 Peking began 
large purchases of gold through the Hong Kong gold market, 
according to the London Economist' s Fina ncial Report (10) 

The International Currency Review reported in September 
1976: "China's increasingly open economic policies are likely to 
have a further impact on other Hong Kong balance-of-payments 
items ... the Bank of China's announcement in early July that 
the 13 Communist-owned banks in Hong Kong would be able to 
purchase bullion, deventures and possibly equities, should 
generate further hard currency revenue for Hong Kong's 
financial community — and will also probably encourage a great 
deal of additional business. . . . The Chinese Government's initia- 
tive in this connection represents one of several financial liberal- 
izing measures recently implemented by Peking. In June, for 
example, the Bank of China and the Vanying Bank issued guar- 
antees for a real estate project in Tsuen Warn, located in the new 
territories." (11) 



Peking's opium weapon 



Gold trading, banking, property, gambling — and roughly half 
of Peking's foreign trade. That is the bottom line of the Peking 
investment in Hong Kong. Since the early 1950s, it was the official 
view of American law enforcement agencies that Hong Kong was 
the main outlet for heroin grown in Red China. In 1961 , just before 
the Kennedy Administration kicked him out, U.S. Narcotics 







I : mm 



Other 
$5 BILLION 



Bribes $1 BILLION 



Chinese Communist 

Intelligence Sen-ice Overhead S500 Million 



Chinese Expatriate 

Remittance to PRC 

$2.5 BILLION 



toPFC 



$500 MILLION 



others 



S500 Mill ION 



». 



Figure 5 
Hong Kong and Peking: Sharing the Drug Take 

Roughly $10 billion annually passes into and out of Hong Kong as payments 
related to the production and wholesaling of illegal opium. Of this, 
something under half is paid to or at the disposal of the People's Republic of 
China. The involvement of the Chinese Communist Intelligence Service in 
the dope trade may be considered self-financing, at a minimum; the Chinese 
also receive something on the order of a $.5 billion directly for opium- 
growing. By far the largest part of Peking's drug-take assumes the form of 
remittances to the mainland by overseas expatriate Chinese, the bulk of this 
$2.5 billion accounted for by those Ch'ao Chou drug-financiers and others in 
the Southeast Asian orbit of Britain's Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



125 



Bureau Chief Harry Anslinger stated, "One primary outlet for 
the Red Chinese traffic has been Hong Kong." (12) 

The police blotter's record of Red Chinese opium traffic 
through Hong Kong is comprehensive. Even the British and Hong 
Kong police have been forced, on occasion, to admit this is the 
case. Scotland Yard attributed a large quantity of heroin seized 
in a 1969 bust in London's West End to PRC shipments through 
Hong Kong. On Oct. 15, 1970, the chief of Hong Kong's notoriously 
corrupt narcotics bureau, Shih Tieh-pi, told a press conference 
that his force had confiscated 10,50(1 pounds of raw opium, 320 
pounds of heroin, and 250 pounds of morphine, all of Red Chinese 
origin, during 1969. The quantities just cited compare 
dramatically with the largcst-cvcr U.S. bust of heroin — the so- 
called French Connection bust involved a mere 100 kilo- 
grams. 03) 

Without knowing the quality of the heroin seized, or the 
veracity of Mr. Shih Tieh-pi, comparisons are difficult. But if the 
320 pounds of heroin seized so close to the original source were 
fairly pure, which is likely, and the rule of thumb applies that 
roughly one-tenth of illegal narcotics shipped are seized by police 
— then 3,200 pounds of heroin passed through Hong Kong in 1969. 
That is roughly what American narcotics addicts consumed in 
1969. 

The PRC*s Hong Kong connection is not a matter of con- 
venience, but the expression of a quarter-century-long policy 
agreement between the Peking government and the highest 
levels of the British oligarchy. The best-known source for the 
unexpurgated views of China's elite is AJ Ahram editor Moham- 
med Heikal. Heikal reported the following 1965 conversation 
between Nasser and visiting PRC Prime Minister Chou En-lai: 

"One of the most remarkable statements Chou En-lai made on 
that evening (June 23, 1965 — ed.) during our discussion of the 
demoralization of American soldiers was that: 'Some of them are 
trying opium and we are helping them. We arc planting the best 
kinds of poppies especially for the American soldiers in 
Vietnam.* Nasser appeared to be somewhat disturbed, but Chou 
continued; 'We want them to maintain a large army in Vietnam 
that will serve us as a hostage, and wc wish to demoralize the 



A 



126 



DOPE, INC. 




HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



troops. The effect of this demoralization on the United States will 
he much greater than anyone can imagine, 1 Nasser thought that 
Chou might be exaggerating somewhat, but Chou's concept was 
clear. He Left no doubt that this was his course of action." (14) 

The Soviet government newspaper Isvestia of Feb. 17, 1978 
cited a Chou En-lai speech in Wuhan in 1952 elaborating the same 
policy. According to Isvestfa, the Chinese Prime Minister said: 

"We are trying in every way to support the creation of opium 
poppy plants. From the standpoint of the revolution, opium is one 
of the means of helping the revolutionary cause and must be used 
actively. If the question is approached from a class standpoint, 
opium is one of the most powerful sorts of weapons of the prole- 
tarian revolution. . . . It is extremely important for us to export 
morphine and heroin in big quantities, use them to weaken the 
combat strength of the enemy and destroy the enemy without 
entering into war with him.** 

Whether or not the Soviet citation is accurate, the views 
expressed coincide with those reported by observers such as 
Heikal, who is far from pro-Soviet or anti-PRC, and conform to 
the practice of the PRO and its secret service, the CCIS. 

Ironically, the British were Quick to point an accusing finger at 
the PRC when it benefitted their policy, during the Korean War. 
In 1950, the British Mission to the United Nations made public a 
PRC offer to sell 500 tons of opium grown in Jehol (North China) 
and in storage in Canton, to a firm in Hong Kong, The British 
Mission said that the offer had been refused. 

FROM HONG KONG 

Until the "China Card" strategic policy found favor in 
Washington under Kissinger, the official American view, among 
others, was that the PRC grew and exported large quantities of 
opium. Harry Anslinger, the first chief of the U.S. Federal 
Bureau of Narcotics, said in 1961: "Heroin made in Chinese 
factories out of poppies grown in China is smuggled into Hong 
Kong and onto freighters and planes to Malaysia, Macao, the 
Philippines, the Hawaiian Islands, the United States, or, going 
the other direction, India, Egypt, Africa, and Europe. A prime 
'target area' in the United States was California. The Los Angeles 



area alone probably received 40 percent of the smuggled contra- 
band from China's heroin and morphine plants. The syndicate 
crowd does not object to dealing with the Reds as long as the 
profits are big in terms of dollars." (15) 

U.S. investigators have only succeeded in putting heat on the 
Hong Kong authorities, provoking token busts of local drug opera- 
tions. The last major .scandal raked up by American authorities 
— immediately before the "opening to Peking" slammed the lid 
down on further action — came in 1973, when U.S. Congressman 
Lester Wolff visited Hong Kong on behalf of the House Select 
Committee on Drug Abuse. Citing the Nixon Administration's 
effective crackdown on Turkish heroin entering the U.S. East 
Coast through the so-called French Connection in Marseilles, 
Wolff charged, "All the narcotics entering the United States must 
be coming from somewhere else, the center of which is Hong 
Kong." (16) 

The Japanese authorities held the same view. Susai Sugahara, 
head of the Japanese Narcotics Bureau, maintained that China 
was the largest opium producer in the world. Taking the export 
figure Sugahara cited, the Soviet commentator V. Ovchinntkov 
estimated in 1964 that one-third of PRC opium production went to 
Japan, According to the Japanese Narcotics Bureau, the PRC 
was the source of the maj or influx of opium into Japan that began 
in the early 1950s, producing an estimated 40,000 addicts as of 
1953. (27) 

In 1969. the Soviet monthly Liternatura Guzyeta estimated 
Chinese opium export earnings at $500 to $800 million per 
annum. (IB) There is no way to confirm this report, and Soviet 
estimates {as well as Taiwanese) of the size of the PRC's opium 
crop unquestionably exaggerate in many instances. However, 
there is a strong element of credibility in the 19S9 Soviet report: 
the $500 to $800 million is within the range of the $1 billion 
estimate developed independently (see Section 2) for the primary 
wholesaling revenue of the Far Eastern opium traffic. The Soviet 
estimate corresponds closely to what may be readily deduced 
from hard law enforcement agency data. 

Why has no action been taken against Hong Kong, when the 
evidence is so well known? There are two reasons. First, no 



A 



128 



DOPE, INC. 




American law enforcement or intelligence agency has ever had 
operational access to Hong Rung. Hong Kong, as British ter- 
ritory, was strictly off limits to American investigators. To our 
direct knowledge, American intelligence never tries to circum- 
vent this feature of the "special relationship'* between Britain 
and the United States. Secondly, the courageous work of Harry 
Anslingcr and other American narcotics officials did succeed in 
putting some heat on the rotten little island. The British seizures 

of narcotics cited earlier are an indirect result of the pressure 
applied, in the context of Nixon's war against drugs. 

The more important reason is that, to a great extent, the actual 
refining of heroin — which moved lock, stock, and barrel to Hong 
Kong from Shanghai after the Communist takeover in 194ft — is 
no longer done in Hong Kong. Rather, Hong Kong's importance is 
overwhelmingly in the sphere of dirty money operations, and 
secondarily in transshipment of heroin. The great shift of the 
production-refining cycle from the Shanghai to Hong Kong route 
to the Golden Triangle (including substantial portions of China's 
Yunnan province) occurred in the context of the Vietnam War. 
Vietnam, which Britain successfully advised the United States to 
enter, provided a gigantic captive market with easy access from 
the Burmese-Thai-Laotian growing areas, some of which had 
already grown substantial quantities of opium during the British 

colonial period. 

For whatever reason, American intelligence Ignored field 
reports throughout the 1960s that indicated a gigantic 
step-up of Peking's narcotics trafficking. One of the most 
extraordinary of the stories that got lost in the intelligence bur- 
eaucracy involved an airfield in northern Laos, 75 miles south of 
the PRC border, built by PRC troops during the summer of 1964. 
According to American intelligence sources, the airfield 
appeared in Phong Sally province, between Luang Prabang, 
Thailand's religious capital, and the border of Red China's 
Yunnan province. Mco guerrillas operating in the area under 
American direction discovered the Chinese building the airstrip 
far into Laotian territory, and reported back in June 1964. 
However, the intelligence cliain-of -command showed little 
interest in those reports. An enterprising mercenary pilot flying 



* 



— . 



-.■ 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



a T-28 aircraft obtained clear-as-daylight reconnaissance photo- 
graphs of the airfield, including shots of Chinese soldiers pushing 
wheelbarrows. The photographs were duly sent through 
channels, where they disappeared. American officers, however, 
believed that the airstrip was intended to link up with an asphalt 
highway the Chinese had been building from Yunnan province 
into northern Laos for some time. Initially, thinking among 
American intelligence officers centered on the possibility that the 
airstrip had been intended as a forward fighter base for PRC 
involvement in the Indochinese conflict. Only later, when no 
Chinese fighters appeared, did the truth emerge: the Chinese 
road and connected airstrip were built to ship opium out of 
Yunnan province. 

American investigators, who have always viewed the drug 
traffic from the bottom levels upward, never "cracked" the con- 
trolling financial relationship that Hong Kong exercises over the 
traffic. 



The Ch'ao Chou connection 

The key ta the Par Eastern drug traffic — the link that ties the 
entire operational picture together — is the Chinese expatriate 
connection. As noted in Section 3, law enforcement investigators 
have known for years what the Ch'ao Chou Chinese networks 
were up to. But the law enforcement agencies never followed 
through the maze of financial connections; to do so would have 
violated standing American intelligence agreements with British 
intelligence. 

Crucial clues to the inner operation of drug traffic — the joint 
operations of the Chinese Communist Intelligence Service 
<CClS), British Intelligence, and Chinese and British finance — 
have been gathering dust in police files for years. One such clue is 
the 1972 arrest of a Chinese Communist Party official in 
Djakarta, the Indonesian capital, in 1972. The Indonesian authori- 
ties arrested a Ch'ao Chou Chinese, complete with Chinese Com- 
munist Party card and other documentary evidence, in posses- 
sion of 30 kilograms of heroin — worth between $60 and $150 




130 



DOPE, INC. 




HOW THE OflUG EMPIRE WORKS 



131 



;u 



milium in terms of American street value, depending on the 
quality. The investigation, employing the combined efforts of 
Indonesian and American drug enforcement officials, showed 
that the purpose of the heroin imports was the financing of the 
Indonesian Communist Party (PKI) through the creation of a 
drug ring in Djakarta. (19) 

An interview by a U.S. Labor Party investigator with a 
Malaysian intelligence source made in November 1978 is worth 
printing in full here for the insight it gives into this particular 
type of operation: 

Source: It is definitely a fact that China distributes nar- 
cotics to its fraternal Communist parties in Southeast Asia 
as a means or raising funds for their activities. The most 
recent case is that of North Korea. Their diplomats have • 
been kicked out of several European countries for smug- 
gling and distributing heroin. Opium is not grown in North 
Korea. It is obviously given to them by the Chinese. In 
Singapore Communist agents were reported selling 
narcotics to American students at the American school for 
lunch money. Imagine, they were giving fixes out for 20 or 
30 cents — just to get the kids hooked for their return to the 
U.S. 

Question: Can you substantiate that? 

Source: It's on the Singapore official record. There is 
more information at the local Kiwanis Club. They keep a 
file on narcotics. Also there was a DFA report written on 
how the PRC distributes narcotics through local party 
functionaries in the region. The report was never released 
but photostats exist. 

Question: There is a lot of accumulated evidence that the 
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank is at the center of the entire 
Far Eastern narcotics trade. 

Source: HongShang is the largest bank in the region and 
particularly in Singapore. China's biggest agent is Pang 
Hock-Jim. He is instrumental in trafficking Chinese opium 
into India, Thailand* Singapore, and Malaysia. 

Question: Has he been arrested? 



V 

,- 

v 
*■>- 

- 



Source; Sure. He's been arrested plenty of times but 
every time a fix is made and he is released. 

Question: Who makes the fix? 

Source: He's directly linked with the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Bank. That's a fact. 

A handful of similar incidents are on record. At the same time, 
American policy busted a Filipino diplomat carrying seven 
pounds of pure Number Four white heroin in his country's diplo- 
matic pouch. He had been followed from the Philippines to a New 
York City hotel room. His contact man. arrested with him, was a 
Ch'ao Chou Chinese. 

One of the very few things that American intelligence knows 
about the CCIS is that the majority of its operatives are ethnic 
Ch'ao Chou. The Ch'ao Chou — as in the case of leading Bangkok 
banker Chen Sophonpanich — are also the leading element in the 
expatriate Chinese community involved in the drug traffic. (20) 

Published Soviet material documents the spider's web of links 
between the Peking government and expatriate Chinese; the 
cited M. A. Andreyev's recent book, Overseas Chinese Bour- 
geoisie — A Peking Toot in Southeast Asia, is the most compre- 
hensive Soviet source available. What the Soviets either do not 
know, or have not chosen to publish, is that joint Chinese 
expatriate- British financial operations in the world narcotics 
traffic hold the entire structure of Chinese foreign intelligence 
together. 

The Chinese expatriate population's close ties to the Peking 
regime are well documented. According to a British author 
writing in 1965. two-thirds of the Chinese expatriates in Southeast 
Asia supported the Peking regime, and only one-third 
Taiwan. (21) American authors like A. Doak Barnett have 
drawn the same conclusion. (22) These impressive figures are 
the result of assiduous cultivation of such ties on the part of the 
Peking government. 

Peking's insistence on the continuity of ties between the 12 
million Chinese residing abroad and the Great Han motherland 
is a matter of public record, and achieved notoriety through 
such incidents as the recent border disputes with Vietnam. 






132 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



133 



l£. 






Andreyev complains, "Under the 1954 Constitution the overseas 
Chinese have 30 representatives in the National People's 
Congress, the highest legislative organ in China. ... In 1953. 
representatives of overseas Chinese supporting the people's 
democratic system and actively opposing the Chiang Kai-shek 
regime met in Peking, where they had a preliminary discussion 
on the procedure for nominating deputies to the National 
People's Congress from the Overseas Chinese. ... An enlarged 
sitting of the Overseas Chinese Affairs Committee, held in 
Peking in July 1954, was attended by 195 representatives of 
Chinese living in different countries. This mooting delegated 30 
representatives of the overseas Chinese to the National People's 
Congress.'* (23) At that time, the Chairman of the Overseas 
Chinese Affairs Committee declared that *'no one can rupture the 
bonds linking overseas Chinese with their homeland. China is the 
motherland of all overseas Chinese." Peking policy, as stated 
publicly, has not changed through to the present. 

Andreyev documents a complex, tightly knit web of Peking 
connections to the expatriate Chinese, including foreign invest- 
ment, trade, and, perhaps most important, expatriate remit- 
tances to relatives in the PRC. Andreyev writes, *'By agreement 
with the Bank of China, two British banks — the Hong Kong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation and the Chartered Bank — with 
their Urge network of branches in Southeast Asia — handle the 
remittances of overseas Chinese to China." (24) 

The system of remittances from Chinese residents abroad to 
families on the mainland, and the more recent system of joint 
investments between the Peking regime and Chinese expa- 
triates, are not only a major source of foreign exchange for China; 
they are the financial infrastructure of Chinese secret intelli- 
gence. The network of financial ties between Peking and the 
expatriates overlaps the networks that control the wholesale 
drug trade in the Golden Triangle. 

Several examples make this conclusion inevitable. One is the 
cited fact that the biggest dope financier in the region, Bangkok 
Bank chief Chin Sophonpanich t fled a fraud charge in Thailand 
and spent the next seven years in Peking; since his return, 
Sophonpanich has kept up close contact with Peking. But the 



::■ 



■' 



most compelling evidence is the structure of the remittances 
transfers which — as noted — channel through the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Bank. 

The cited Soviet commentator argues that the standard 
estimates of the flow of remittances hack to China, which run to a 
few tens of millions of dollars a year, are grossly inadequate. 
"Most of these evaluations," Andreyev wrote, "are based on at 
least three assumptions. The first is that all the foreign exchange 
and commodities are sent via Hong Kong. Actually, this is not 
true. In particular, this assumption ignores Macao, through 
which pass considerable quantities of overseas Chinese capital. 
Moreover, in Southeast Asia and Hong Kong there arc a number of 
official PRC agencies that have the possibility of secretly sending 
large sums of money directly to Peking. Considerable possibil- 
ities are opened for this by China's commercial dealings with 
Southeast Asian countries, and Peking, evidently, uses these 
possibilities." (25) 

Andreyev continued. "Lastly, along the poorly controlled Sino- 

Burmese border there, probably, are loopholes through which 

considerable material values can drain to the PRC, at least from 
the countries in the Indochinese Peninsula. This is borne out by 
the flow of gold to China across that border, " (26) 

That report — matching the earlier-cited Jsvestia estimate that 
the PRC's opium earnings were $500 to $800 million — is entirely 
credible, when matched to related evidence. This is in the 
general range of what the PRC's "take" should be if our earlier 

chain of evidence holds up. The Burmese border area is the ulti- 
mate destination of much of the gold that passes through the 
HongShang s gold market in Hong Kong, through the myriad of 
small Chinese banks. (With the 13 PRC-owned banks in Hong 
Kong now operating in the gold market, the PRC will be able to 
take an additional cut, in the form of trading commissions on gold 
that it will ultimately receive as payment for opium.) 

Red China not only receives gold across the Yunnan province 
border in the Golden Triangle in return for opium going out, but 
indirectly intervenes among the competing opium warlord 
factions in Burma itself. During the early 1970s, the PRC armed 
the so-called White Flag Communist Party under the command 



JL 



134 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



\ 

i 



of Ping Chia-hsiang, supporting Ping's move to take over prime 
opium-growing areas in the neighborhood of the Suloween 
River. (27) 

China is one primary factor in the opium growing regions; 
Britain is the other. Most of the Burmese opium -growing regions 
are subject to genial competition between the Maoist-controlled 
White Flag Communist Party and other armed gangs, and Self- 
Defense Forces under the control of British-trained and still 
British-influenced Burmese security forces. Anglo-Chinese 
cooperation on the Burmese border is one of the biggest scandals 
In the area. 



Forging the Hong Kong-Peking link 



Until the Sino-Soviet split period, the ties that bound the 
expatriate Chinese to the mainland were the strongest of all: 
family. This link was expressed (n the large-scale transmission of 
remittances back to families on the mainland. According 
to the limited available data, the largest volume of such remit- 
tances, for which special remittance transfer agencies had heen 
created, was to the small city of Swatow on the northern Chinese 
coast; Swatow is the home city of the Ch'ao Chou Chinese. The 
Ch'ao Chou, seafaring and commercial people with a special 
dialect, evidently maintained the closest family links with the 
mainland. That is the background to the wholesale recruitment of 
expatriate Ch'ao Chou Chinese into Chinese secret intelligence 
during the post war period. (28) 

In the late 1950s, the volume of reported remittances dropped 
off sharply. Instead of paying remittances directly to relatives, 
expatriate Chinese invested heavily in both mainland China and 
in foreign joint ventures with the Peking government. The flow of 
remittances was capitalized in joint ventures with Peking, and 
relatives back home received dividends from these investments. 

The volume of remittances is given in the following table: 



'- 



t 






t' 



1950 


39 


1958 


15.6 


1951 


29.1 


1959 . 


9.1 


1952 


19.2 


1960 


8.6 


1953 


29.2 


1961 


8.4 


1954 


30.2 


1962 


8.4 


1955 


30.1 


1963 


8.4 


1956 


• 30.2 


1964 


8.4 


1957 


27.4 







(Based on published data for Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore, projected 
to include the rest of Southeast Asia.) 

(Source: Andreyev, Overseas Chinese Bourgeoisie: A Peking Tool in 
Southeast Asia.) 

The point of decline of remittances (that is, legal remit- 
tances, as reported above) coincides with Peking's orientation to 
joint investments with expatriate Chinese. That policy goes back 
to 1951, when the South China Enterprise Company, the fore- 
runner of the present Overseas Chinese Investment Corporation, 
sold 100,000 shares to Chinese businessmen in Hong Kong and 
Macao. However, until 1957, the attractions for such investors 
were limited ; overseas Chinese investment could only find oppor- 
tunities in agriculture, the Least profitable sector of the economy. 

But in 1957 new regulations came into effect that not only guar- 
anteed a 12 percent dividend investment, against a normal 8 
percent dividend in ordinary mixed companies. The Peking 
government also made provision for repatriation of part of the 
profits to the overseas Chinese investor. 

By the mid-1950s, this capital was concentrated in the Overseas 
Chinese Industrial Construction Company and related com- 
panies, which merged into the Overseas Chinese Investment 
Corporation (OCIC) in 15)55, with initial capitalization of S5D 
million. The board of directors of the OCIC included leading 
Chinese businessmen resident in Southeast Asia. By 1&6B, there 
were 140 businesses under the OCIC aegis operating in China. (29) 

By the mid-1960s, however, the policy of using the hard cur- 
rency of expatriate Chinese to invest in China gave way to a 
much more efficient form of raising vitally needed foreign 
exchange. Peking took a stake in the expatriate Chinese com- 
munity's expanding operations in drug-pushing and dirty money 




736 



DOPE, INC. 



^ 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



13/ 



operations, centering on the boomtown in Hong Kong. The result 
is the flagrant cohabitation between London and Peking noted in 
Section 4. (SO) 

THE $2.5 BILLION TAKE 

Despite the overwhelming weight of evidence showing 
Peking's integration into the Southeast Asian drug trade, there is 
no way to "prove" that the $1.3 billion financial reflow into the 
PRC during 1977 estimated by Chase Manhattan and the 
projected S2.5 billion flow during 1JJ78 represent the revenues of 
the traffic However, it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of 
the reader that this estimate is entirely consistent with all the 

previous data. 

By two independent types of estimate, our earlier data (Sec- 
tion 3> showed that the cash flow of the Far East drug trade broke 
down as follows: 



Primary wholesaling of opium and heroin 
(Golden Triangle plus secondary 
PRC production) 

Secondary wholesaling of opiates to 
West (20 percent cash reflow of 
$25 billion world opium /heroin 
market to Far East) 

Retail opiates consumption in Far East 



$1 billion 



$5 billion 



$3-4 billion 



Assuming that thePRC's primary wholesaling profits are $500 
million, or half of the total — the lower range of apparently 
accurate Soviet estimates — then the PRC's secondary whole- 
saling profits would be in the ratio of 5 to I with respect to the first 
figure, or $2.5 billion. That is the Chase Manhattan figure 
reported above. Since the PRC is undertaking major official 
investments in Hong Kong this year, it is fair to assume that it 
would repatriate, illegal profits to be re-invested in legal enter- 
prises to a greater extent than during 1977, when the reflow back 
to Peking was only $1.3 billion. 

Of course, the above calculations arc hypothetical, hut they do 
indicate that the $2.5 billion net revenue suggested by the Chase 
Manhattan figure is well within the range of accuracy. 



I 

I 



i. 






The same type of range can be obtained through an entirely 
different chain of reasoning. The Soviet economist Andreyev, 
using published sources of area governments, calculated that 
total expatriate Chinese capital flow into China amounted to $1.66 
billion in the years 1950-64 inclusive. Up through this period, the 
primary financial relationship between the PRC and expatriate 
Chinese was in the form of foreign investment inside China, 
through such vehicles as the Overseas Chinese Investment 
Corporation, as noted above, ft is documented that after 1964, 
PRC policy shifted into a high-gear "Opium War in Reverse" 
posture, to use the phrase of British author Richard Deacon. At 
this lime, Chou En-lai made his infamous confession to Nasser. 

As noted, the financial relationship shifted into joint ventures 
in Southeast Asia between PRC-owned institutions and expa- 
triate Chinese, with a heavy concentration in narcotics traffic 
and related activities. 

Assume that the identical rate of expatriate Chinese financial 
support continued during the years 1965-78 in this form of invest- 
ment, augmented only by a 10 percent inflation factor, highly 
conservative for the area. The aggregate investment during 1965- 
78 would amount to $S.3 billion, in joint operations with the PRC. 
Assume a 40 percent annual profit margin on this investment, 
much lower than profits on the drug trade, but in the middle of 
the range of the 30-50 percent figure given above for smugglers' 
profits in the area. The annual income from this investment 
would be precisely $2,5 billion. 

The big move into Hong Kong transformed Red China from a 
mere producer of opium, into Britain's international partner in 
the distribution, and later the financing, of the opium trade in the 
Far East — if not elsewhere. (The Ch'ao Chou Chinese arrested 
in a New Vork hotel room with a Philippine diplomat and seven 
pounds of heroin carried the business card of the local New York 
Ch*ao Chou fraternal association. ) 

America's disastrous involvement in Vietnam gave the Mao 
regime the opportunity to make it big in the world of narcotics, 
and Peking jumped in — and into Hong Kong — with both feet. 
America paid the price of a skyrocketing rate of narcotics addic- 
tion. Nonetheless, the late 1960s were only a period of transition, 



*' 
* 



A. 



136 



DOPE, INC. 



ft- 



the fulfillment, of a strategic design sketched out between Mao 
Tse-tung and the British old-line opium families in the early 
1940s. That agreement, which united the highest level of British 
intelligence and finance with the Peking leadership, wc turn to in 
the next section. 



... 



i. 

■ K 

: i 



• %' 



■• 



i 

M 



r . 



7 



How the Royal Institute of 
International Affairs Runs 

Drugs and Dirty Money 



Now wc will take the reader up through the chain of command 
of the world drug and dirty money business, to the top level of 
political control: to Chatham Rouse, St. James Square. London, 
the headquarters of the Royal Institute of International Affairs. 
w*e have inspected the books of Drugs, Incorporated, met the 
operating personnel, visited its subsidiaries in Hong Kong, 
Bangkok, and Peking, as well as its farms and factories in the 
Golden Triangle, on the common border of Burma, Laos, Thai- 
land, and the People's Republic of China. The Far East drug traf- 
fic emerges as a single business operation, a British-Chinese 
Joint venture, in which Britain is the senior partner. 

It is obvious, by now, that an operation of this scope could not 
exist without the political approval of the British government, 
nor without the gigantic supporting facilities of the world's off- 
shore credit markets, the world's gold and diamonds trade, and 
"hands-on" management of the retail distribution, or organized 
crime aspects of the operation. 

The next step is an introduction to the Board of Directors of 
Drugs, Incorporated, and an overview of their multifarious ties 



3P 

i. 



139 



140 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



141 






to the Far East opium growing and wholesaling operation, the off- 
shore dirty money operations, gold and diamonds mining and 
distribution, the Canadian connection, the Zionist Lobby dirty 
money installations, and the top levels of British policy-making. 

The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank is not an independent male- 
factor, but a special operation of the British oligarchy's top 
banks, specializing in the Far Eastern drug traffic. The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank's governing body, the London Com- 
mittee, is the British oligarchy's delegated group assigned to the 

Far East drug traffic. ^ 

More specifically, it is an economic warfare operation. Two of 
its directors, J.H. Keswick — of the family that founded Jardine 
Matheson in 1«28 to trade opium — and J.K. Swire — of Che Swire 
family of hereditary opium traders — were senior officials in Bri- 
tain's Ministry of Economic War during World War If. Another 
senior official of that Ministry is Sir Mark Turner, the chairman 
of Rio Tinto Zinc, the HongShang's partner in numerous fields, 
including gold operations. Turner is now a key figure in the Royal 
Institute of International Affairs, founded by Lord Milner, an 
earlier chairman of Rio Tinto Zinc. 

What we will show here is that the Royal Institute of Interna- 
tional Affairs (RIIA) and its leading personnel control not only 
the Far Eastern drug traffic but every important dirty money 
operation on the surface of the globe. 

The next section will further document the British monarchy's 
control of the Canadian banks and corporations, the same 
installations responsible for channeling drugs into and illegal 
funds out of the United States. It demonstrates that the direct 
agency of control over Canada's huge financial warfare appara- 
tus is the Canadian Institute of International Affairs (C1IA), a 
mock-up of Britain's RIIA. created by the RIIA in the first piace. 
Included in the Canadian operation arc the Bank of Nova Scotia's 
domination of Canada's gold market. Canadian banks* huge role 
in Caribbean Silver Triangle dirty money operations, and — most 
important — the direct links between the hard-core Far East 
drug wholesalers, and the Canadian institutions that have parti- 
cipated in the wholesale drug traffic on the North American 
continent since the closing days of Prohibition. Through the 



- 



Canadian outpost of the British monarchy, the drug traders close 
the circle between the Keswick family of Hong Kong, the found- 
ers of Jardine Matheson in 1828, and the Bronfman family, the 

immediate sponsors of the top levels of so-called organized crime 
in the United States . 

From their base in the $200 billion dirty money traffic, the insti- 
tutions assembled in force on the leading committees of the RIIA 
dominate: 

1) All of Britain's top commercial banks directly; 

2) Both big British oil companies. British Petroleum and Royal 
Dutch Shell directly, 

3) All the leading British merchant hanks, directly or 

indirectly; 

4) The world gold and diamonds trade; 

5) Every leading old-line opium trading firm, including the 
P&O Steamship Company, Jardine Matheson, John Swire and 
Sons, and Charterhouse Japhet, directly. 

GOAL: REBUILD THE EMPIRE 

Now that the command structure of the worldwide operation is 
evident, wc arc going to examine the content of the Royal 
Institute of International Affairs' subversive activities, following 
through the careers of some of its leading operatives — including 
Sir John Henry Keswick, member of the family which controls 
the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, and from the old Jardine 
Matheson opium trading firm ; and the current chairman of the 
Council of the RIIA, Lord Humphrey Trevelyan, member of the 
board of directors of HongShang's gold-smuggling subsidiary, 
the British Bank of the Middle East. These are the men who 
created the Peking Connection in its modem form. 

According to the Charter of the RIIA published in 1920, the 
Royal Institute of International Affairs is "an unofficial and non- 
political body." whose object is "to advance the sciences of inter- 
national politics, economics, and jurisprudence," to "provide 
and maintain means of information upon international ques- 
tions," and "to promote the study and investigation of such ques- 
tions." Few times in the history of the written word have so many 
lies appeared in so few lines. 




142 



DOPE, INC. 



it 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



143 



However, a concise summary of the RlIA's purposes appears 
in its de facto founding document, Cecil Rhodes' s 1877 bequest. 
Rhodes, who founded both the sold and diamond mining empire 
that still dominates world markets under the aegis of Anglo- 
American and De Beers, and also founded the dope-trading- 
Standard Bank (the African partner of the Asian-based Charter- 
ed Bank, since merged), is the starting point for the present form 
of the disease. Rhodes left his wealth to the Rhodes Trust, ad- 
ministered by Lord Milner. Milner's collection of Ocxford train- 
ees, called the "Milner Kindergarten," made up most of the 1916 
Lloyd George government, and formed the RIIA at a meeting in 
Versailles on May 30, 1919. 
Rhodes*s 1877 will was: 

To establish a trust, to and for the establishment and 
promotion and development of a secret society, the true 
aim and object whereof shall be the extension of British 
rule throughout the world, the perfecting of a system of 
emigration from the United Kingdom and the colonization 
by British subjects of all lands wherein the means of 
livelihood are attainable by energy, labor, and enterprise, 
and especially the occupation by British settlers of the en- 
tire continent of Africa, the Holy Land, the valley of the 
Euphrates, the islands of Cyprus and Candia, the whole of 
South America, the islands of the Pacific not heretofore 
possessed by Great Britain, the whole of the Malay Archi- 
pelago, the seaboard of China and Japan, the ultimate 
recovery of the United States of America as an integral 
part of the British Empire, the consolidation of the whole 
Empire, the inauguration of a system of colonial repre- 
sentation In the Imperial Parliament which may tend to 
weld together the disjointed members of the Empire, and 
finally, the foundation of so great a power as to hereafter 
render wars impossible and promote the best interests of 
humanity.CJXemphasis added) 

The secret society concept was passed on by Milner, Rhodes's 
successor as High Commissioner in South Africa, through 



Milner's trainees Lionel Curtis (of the Round Table Group), and 
Lord Robert Cecil — whose family dales back to the Genoa- 
Amsterdam coup against Elizabethan humanism in 1601. Curtis 
and Cecil both participated in the May 1919 meeting at Versailles 
which founded the RIIA. 

The Royal Institute for- International Affairs is the secret 
society. 



1949: The British-Peking deal 

Let us backtrack, for a moment, to the point of origin of the Lon- 
don-Peking joint drug-running venture in the Far East, the 
wartime deal between the RIIA and Chou En-lai. Detailed 
records of the relevant years have recently been made available. 
In August 1978. the U.S. State Department released 1,300 pages of 
documents to the public dealing with American diplomacy in 
China at the time of the Maoist takeover. (2) From the British 
side, the RIIA in 1977 released its own records of its wartime and 
postwar operations group in the region, the Far East Committee 
— the real British Foreign Office. (3) 

Both sets of documents yield the same interpretation: the 
creation of the People's Republic of China included an alliance 
between the British dope-runners and the Chinese dope-runners. 
This was negotiated from the British side by Sir John Henry Kes- 
wick and from the Chinese side by Chou En-lai. The Chinese team 
also prominently included top figures in the opium trade, such as 
the Bank of China's Chi Ch'ao-ting, Shanghai Commercial Bank's 
K.P. Chen (who also headed the Chinese wing of the Institute for 
Pacific Relations), and elements of the so-called Green Gangs. 
The Green Gangs, which could be called the Chinese mafia, ran 
the opium trade not only in the Far East but through the far-flung 

networks of the Chinese expatriate community. 

From both the British and the Chinese side, the alliance was 
explicitly against the United States. The Chinese knew it, and 
said so, the British knew it, and said so, and American diplomats 
cabled home that the United States had been shafted, (4) 




144 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



145 



When the top representatives of Britain's RIIA began sound- 
ings in the Chinese Communist stronghold of Yenan and at Chou 
En-lai's Chungking legation during the World War II period, they 
had reasons dating back a century to expect results. China lost 
the opium wars because such a large section of officialdom had 

been corrupted through opium dependency. 

But the credit for the re-creation of the alliance between Brit- 
ain and the modern equivalent of the Triad gangs must go to Sir 
John Henry Keswick, the RIIA's man-on-the-spot at the British 
Embassy in Chungking during the crucial period of World War II. 
It is known that Keswick was in regular contact with Chou En-lai 
in his capacity as a prominent businessman and through his at- 
tachment to the British embassy in Chungking. Chou was in 
Chungking from 1937 through the 1940s. (5) 

Keswick, of the hereditary drug-trading family that founded 
and still controls Jardine Matheson, also represented the RIIA 
and its sub-branch, the Institute for Pacific Relations, to the 
United States. (€) Sir John Henry is still Britain's number one 
man for China policy, Chairman of Britain's China Association, 
Vice-President of the Sino-British Trade Council, and a member 
of the Great Britain-China Committee. (His predecessor at the 
China Association from 1951-55 was John Kidston Swire, of the old 
opium-trading Swire family, who still sits on the London Com- 
mittee of the HongShang.) 

Two pieces of eyewitness testimony from Mao Tse-tung's 
wartime hideout in China's northern Yenan province bear 
comparison. The first is the report by Peter Vladimirov, the 
Soviet liaison to Mao's headquarters in Yenan during 1941-45. 
According to the Soviet-published Vladimirov Diaries, the 
Chinese Communist Party operating in Yenan grew opium for 
profit, not only for medicinal uses. Opium had been a major cash 
crop for Yenan before Mao's arrival: Vladimirov claimed that 
Mao continued the practice. The Soviet representative also 
suspected the CPC's chairman's close contact with American 
visitors connected to the Institute for Pacific Relations. (7) 

A second account appeared in the January 1978 issue of 
International Affairs, the journal of the RIIA: 



Victor Farmer, who was a director of Imperial Chemical 
Industries (China) and who in 1944 hud recently returned 
from a visit to the Far East (staled): "I have met some 
(Chinese) Communists and their ideas arc very open- 
minded. If you could get rid of this ultra-nationalist clique 
in the saddle at present in Chungking, and many Govern- 
ment officials are extremely broad-minded. I think that the 
way would be open for a compromise with the Commun- 
ists ; and an effective compromise." (8) 

The view Farmer expressed on 'behalf of the RIIA's Far 
Eastern Committee had already surfaced in the United States 
through the committee's American branch, the institute for 
Pacific Relations (IPR), the institution that produced the pro- 
Maoist group in the U.S. State Department centered around John 
Stuart Service and John Carter Vincent. Although the IPR 
included American citizens and was funded through the Rocke- 
feller and Carnegie Foundations, it functioned exclusively as a 
branch of the RIIA and British policy-making. The iPR's two 
most prominent general secretaries, Edward Carter and 
William Holland, had extensive British pedigrees. Carter, 
whose reign as IPR chief lasted until 1946, was a leader of the 
international YMCA. while his successor Holland was a citizen of 
New Zealand until 1943 and a member of London's Royal 
Institute. 

The dead giveaway on the IPR's British character is the 
organization's move to Canada subsequent to the 1950 McCarran 
Committee investigation, which mistook pro-British treason for 
pro-Communist treason. With hearty British cheers, the dis- 
graced Institute for Pacific Relations moved to Canada. 

Britain's support for the IPR was further expressed by the 
chairman of the RIIA's Far Eastern Group. Sir Andrew 
McFadyean (who in 1947 became the chairman of S.G. 
Warburg's, the merchant bank). In a 1952 letter he wrote: 'The 
fact that I have criticized certain activities and certain officers of 
the IPR entitles me to say with greater emphasis, firstly that it 
would have been a useless body if it had not represented a wide 




DOPE, INC, 



variety of political views, and secondly that throughout my 
acquaintance with the Institute its governing body, while respect- 
ing the rights of free expression, has never encouraged or coun- 
tenanced subversive views." (9) 

Once in Canada, the IPR came under the official sponsorship of 
the Canadian Institute of International Affairs, the local RIIA 
subsidiary, and its chairman — now "honorary Chairman for 
Life" — Walter Lockhart Gordon. During the last 30 years, Gor- 
don has been the most consistent North American apologist for 
Maoist China. Gordon currently has direct personal ties to 
Canada's "old China hands," including Dr. Paul Lin, Chester 
Ronning. and James Endicott. All three served as advisors to 
Chinese Premier Chou En-lai; Paul Lin's official duties as an 
aide to Chou terminated only in 1965. Lin, in turn, is a power in the 
expatriate Chinese community in Vancouver, the most important 
transshipment point for opium entering the United States. 

The ties run back the other way across the Pacific as well. Gor- 
don sponsored the initial founding of the Chinese People's Insti- 
tute of Foreign Affairs in China, an official Red Chinese organiza- 
tion that currently maintains links with the Canadian Institute 
of International Affairs. Chester Ronning has been the Chan- 
cellor of the University of York in Canada; Walter Lockhart Gor- 
don arranged funding for the Norm an Bethune School at that uni- 
versity under Ronning* s supervision, the most overtly pro-Maoist 
institution on the North American continent. That is the pedigree 
of the British-created, British-defended, and still British-run 
Institute for Pacific Relations. (10) 

SQUEEZE PLAY 
According to the RUA's official account cited above, the RIIA- 
lPR's function at the close of World War II was to propose the 
John Service-John Keswick policy of fostering Maoism as 
the "alternative" to Britain's shrill insistence on her colonial 
rights in the area. Prime Minister Churchill still balked at the 
self-determination provisions of the Atlantic Charter, namely 
that Britain give up its Southeast Asian colonies. Anti-Brit- 
ish feeling ran. so high in the United States, the International 
Affairs study points out, that Henry Luce's Life magazine 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



147 



r 



urged the British people "to stop fighting for the British Empire 
and fight for victory ... if you cling to the Empire at tiie expense 
of a United Nations victory you will lose the war because you will 
lose us." A poll taken in 1942 revealed that 5fi percent of Ameri- 
cans questioned agreed that the British could rightly be 
described as "oppressors . . . because of the unfair advantage 
. - , they have taken of their colonial possessions." 

The RIIA and the IPR's "alternative" posture was a retreat 
under fire from an imperial position in the Far East to an alliance 
with the Great Han chauvinists of the Communist Party of China. 
Any suggestion that an actual policy difference intervened 
between the "hidebound reactionary" Winston Churchill and the 
openly pro-Maoist Victor Farmer of the RUA's Far Eastern 
Group, is made silly by the role of Jardine Matheson's John 

He iiry Keswick.. 

Keswick was a prominent figure in the Shanghai International 
Settlements, of which his brother, Sir William Johnston Keswick, 
was chairman throughout the 1930s and until 1949. Britain had 
owned a chunk of the city of Shanghai by the treaty that ended the 
Second Opium War. The status of the Shanghai International 
Settlement was one of the major policy conflicts between Roose- 
velt and Churchill, since it represented a foreign colonial intru- 
sion in an allied nation. Britain's concern for Shanghai may also 
have been motivated by the fact that it was the world's center for 
refining opium into heroin. Keswick and the refineries both 
picked up and moved to Hong Kong in 1949. 

In January 1945, pro-Maoist Victor Farmer and John Henry 
Keswick {with Andrew McFadyean) together led Britain's dele- 
gation to the Institute for Pacific Relations 's most important con- 
ference at Hot Springs, W. Va. Ten British officials went along in 
tow with the RIIA officials. The British delegation presented a 
softer front to the Americans than the Churchill government was 
then willing to officially concede, RIIA documents show that the 
queer combination of Chinese Communist Party apologist Victor 
Farmer and old-line opium trader John Keswick did the trick of 
mollifying the Americans. 

"The general atmosphere here (at Hot Springs — ed.) is very 
much better than (at the last Institute for Pacific Relations con- 



- 



148 



DOPE. INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



149 



ference at) Mont Tremblant. . . . There is much less disposition 
to twist British tails just for the fun of seeing how the animal 
reacts," McFadyean wrote back to the RIIA in relief. (II) 
American delegates included Treasury official Harry Dexter 
White, responsible for yelling to the United States John Maynard 
Keynes's British blueprint for the International Monetary Fund. 

Not until Mao's army marched into Shanghai in 1949 did the 
Americans realize what they were in for. The new mayor of 
Shanghai, Chen Yi, summoned John Keswick for secret talks, the 
State Department documents reveal, virtually as soon as the 
mayor arrived in the city. After a Lengthy round of talks, Keswick 
departed and called on the American consul-general. The 
stunned diplomat later telexed back to Washington that Keswick 
"made a statement that he did not expect Americans to fare well 
under the Communist regime, but did not indicate whether this 
opinion was formed as a result of the conversation with the 
mayor." Keswick was either threatening the United States or 
relaying what the Chinese had told him, the consul-general 
wrote. "He would hardly have invented this as a bluff to frighten 
away American competitors," the American concluded 
optimistically. 02) 

How ingenuous that evaluation was became clear within days. 
Behind the backs of the Americans, the British negotiated a deal 
to keep Hong Kong under London's control, and opened up 
confidential lines of communications between the mainland and 
Hong Kong. In wires to Washington, American diplomats accused 
the British of tearing up the standing Anglo- American agreement 
that all decisions respecting the Communist government would 
be made in close consultations. "The Communists are obviously 
trying to play off the British against us and seem to have 
succeeded somewhat," one American of ficial wrote. (13) 

The British added insult to injury by maintaining an official 
pro-Maoist propaganda campaign, which began far before the 
Communists took over. British officials gave awards to leading 
members of the CCP, even while maintaining "official" 
diplomatic relations with Chiang Kai-shek, and gave lavish 
public receptions for dissident elements of the Kuomintang, such 
as the widow of Sun Vat -sen, the Chinese nationalist leader who 



died in 1925. (Sun's wife is currently an official of the PRC govern- 
ment.) Shortly before the Communist takeover, one journalist 
wrote; "The British have a reputation for very smart diplomacy 
in Asia. Part of this comes from their ability to spot key groups 
and get on the right side of them, ft is generally believed by 
observers that the British now figure the intellectual left wing to 
be one of the groups that will gain rather than lose strength in the 
political changes of the next few years, and are preparing for this 
eventuality." (U) 

American intelligence dispatches from 1947 reprinted in the 
State Department release wrote: "It is significant to note that 
shortly after the Communist takeover of the key city of Shanghai, 
the Maoists halted all anti-British propaganda," 05) 



Creation of the Hong Kong drug nexus 

Under the public cover of Anglo-Chinese mutual seduction, and 
before the horrified eyes of American observers, the British and 
Maoists created the financial infrastructure of what would 
later underwrite the Far East narcotics traffic. Keswick's open- 
ing of channels between Peking and Hong Kong permitted a divi- 
sion of tim Shanghai banking families between mainland China 
and Hong Kong; this 1947 division founded the expatriate 
Chinese connection between Peking and London. {Apparently, 
other expatriate networks, like the Thai bankers who date 
hack to the 1930s, were consolidated in the same fashion, al- 
though the same degree of documentation from the period is not 
yet available.) 

The Senate investigation nf the Institute for Pacific Relations 
revealed indirectly the role of the Royal institute of International 
Affairs in the creation of the drug-financing networks. The 
McCarran Committee made public some of the correspondence 
of IPR General Secretary William Holland. Holland, before his 
ascendance as IPR chief in 1946. took over the China stations of 
the American Office of War Information, an organization closely 
tied to the wartime predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agen- 
cy, the Office of Strategic Services. Holland was in frequent 



A 



150 



DOPE, INC 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



151 



touch with the head of the RIIA in London, which as noted above, 
had created Holland 1 s IPR in the first place. 

In one of the letters available from the 1950-51 McCarran pro- 
ceedings, Holland informed the RIIA that a top Chinese Com- 
munist hanking official "may turn out to be one of the best 
friends we have." 06) The official in question, Chi Ch'ao-ting, 
was a top officer in the Nationalist Bank of China, until the 
Maoist victory. At that moment, he shifted allegiance to the PRC 
Bank of China. Moreover, Chi's defection was preceded by that of 
a whole faction within the Nationalist Bank, which choso to 
"make a deal" with the Communists rather than flee to Taiwan. 
This faction, according to the 1949 State Department papers, 
made arrangements to communicate with Chinese IPR leader 
and Shanghai banker K.P. Chen, who had left Shanghai for Hong 
Kong, even after the Communist takeover. (I?) 

It should be added that, as a matter of public record, most of 
the Nationalist Bank of China's cash flow during the period of 
Chi's service came from the opium traffic, which the Chiang 
Kai-shek government continued throughout the war years. Chi's 
shift of allegiance was merely the poppy stem's bending with the 
wind of change. 

Chi's defection to Mao's Bank of China began an illustrious 
career, during which he rose to a high position in the bank and 
participated in international conferences for the PRC as well. As 
noted, the Bank of China's financial connections to the West are 
through Hong Kong, its reserves were and still are held with the 
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank and the Standard and Chartered 
Bank, its remittances payments conducted through the same 
banks, and so forth. Chi's move — under the approving eyes of 
Holland — only typified what went on in the Shanghai banking 
community at large. In the same dispatch to the RIIA cited 
above, Holland reported on his contacts with leading Shanghai 
bankers, citing the case of Chinese Shanghai Commercial Bank 
chief K.P. Chen. Chen fled to Hong Kong shortly before the Com- 
munists took over, Holland reported, adding, ''Impossible as it 
now seems, I have an idea Chen will later go to Shanghai." (18) 

An entire section of the Shanghai bankers resisted pressure by 
the departing Nationalist forces to transplant their operations to 



Taiwan. As in the case cited by HolJand, they preferred to hedge 
their bets between the British and the People's Republic of China . 
At the lower levels of the narcotics traffic, the notorious Green 
Gangs, the footsoldiers of the traffic, broke en masse with the 
Kuomtntang forces, and moved into the Communist camp. 
Neatly and speedily, the entire postwar opium apparatus had 
been redeployed between Shanghai and Hong Kong. 

One of Holland's close associates during the period was the 
Canadian rupresentative in Chungking, Chester Ronning — still 
prominent in the Canadian connection to the London-Peking drug 
apparatus. Utterly enamored of the Maoists, Ronning met 
almost weekly with Chou En-laf's chief deputy, Wang Ping-nan, 
during his 1945-47 tour of duty. (19) 

Ronning's relationship with Wang Ping-nan has a special im- 
portance, which we will indicate momentarily. Ronning went on 
to act as midwife in the Institute for Pacific Relation's 1950 re- 
birth in Canada after the scandal. 

Both the State Department and the RIIA releases make fools of 
those Americans who thought that the Institute for Pacific 
Relations had "betrayed" American ally Chiang Kai-shek to the 
red menace. The Kuomintang, a gang that couldn't shoot 
straight, was merely losing the battle for Far Eastern opium. 
(There has been substantial documentation, not immediately 
relevant to the present chain of evidence, that remnants of the 
Kuomintang army in Burma continued to grow opium for a 
quarter-century after the Communist victory, and that some of 
their friends in the China Lobby, e.g. Air Am erica, transported it 
for them.) In fact, the United States was sold down the Pearl 
River by our British "allies," in combination with the snickering 
Chinese. America's youth paid the terrible price of this 
deception. 

At the outset of the Korean War, the public amity between 
Great Britain and China was reduced — for purposes of public 
consumption. However, the leading individuals who created the 
Peking Connection continued to hold all the important strings, 
and maintained the full continuity of the narcotics traffic. 
Despite the public hostilities, the PRC operated freely on Hong 
Kong's illicit gold exchanges, and present-day luminaries like 



A 



DOPE, INC. 



Stanley Ho <see Section 5) made their fortunes smuggling 
strategic goods into China from Hong Kong. 

THE EMERGENCE OF THE "CHINA CARD" 

In 1951, Lord Humphrey Trevelyan took his post as British 
Ambassador to China, the same man who today sits on the board 
of the British Bank of the Middle East. Public contacts between 
Lord Trevelyan and the Peking regime were necessarily low-key, 
by the dictates of what even the British and Chinese consider 
public decency. To cover their tracks the British claim that 
Trevelyan did not meet Premier Chou En-lai during the first two 
years of his stay in Peking, although they do admit that Trevel- 
yan's fellow diplomat John Henry Keswick bad had regular 
access to Chou during the early 1940s in Chungking. 

However, Trevelyan's stay in Peking was not without great 
importance. Trevelyan set up the beginnings of the so-called 
American opening to China, laying the basis for the "China 
Card." His partner in this maneuver was Chester Ronning's old 
Maoist contact, Wang Ping-nan. By this time, Chou En-lai's old 
deputy of the Chungking days was the PRCs Ambassador to 
Poland. Trevelyan set up the first American diplomatic contacts 
with the People's Republic of China — through China's Embassy 
in Poland — during the mid-1950s- America's contact man with 
the Peking government was Ambassador WangPing-nan. 

Trevelyan's further career is remarkable. After a brief stay in 
West Germany, he went on to become Britain's Ambassador to 
Egypt during the Suez Crisis — the British-French-Israeli inva- 
sion of Egypt that wrecked President Eisenhower's world 
development plan, the Atoms for Peace program. After a tour at 
the British Foreign Office, he was Britain's Ambassador to the 
Soviet Union during 1962-65, during the British-inspired Cuban 
missile crisis. Currently, he sits on the board of directors of 
British Petroleum, along with John Keswick's brother Sir 
William Johnston Keswick, and various other members of the 
boards of the HongShang and the RIIA council. 

Lord Trevelyan completed the circle by taking the chair- 
manship of the Council of the RIIA, while keeping an aclive hand 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WOFIKS 



153 



■.■■. 



in the opium business, through the British Bank of the Middle 

East. 

Direct experience in the drug trade is apparently a standard 
qualification for chairmen of the Council of the RIIA. When 
Trevelyan. Keswick, Holland, and Ronning were young men 
setting up the Peking Connection during World War II, the chair- 
man of the RIIA Council was Waldorf Astor. Astor's great-grand- 
father, John Jacob Astor, was a British agent-of -influence in the 
first years of the American republic; according to his 
biographer, J. J. Astor was the first American to get in on the 
drug trade alongside the British East India Company, starting in 
1816. 




Sir Harry Oppenhelmer 



Barclay* 
Intl. 



Evelyn lie 



Bank Leumi 
Ernst J. Japhet 




Anglo-American 



De Beers 



MM. 
RQ|ns=hilfl 



Ch arte rho use Japhet 



John Ki<kton Swire 

Hereditary Drug-trading 

Family 



Erdjn*> Rothschild 



Sir Harry 
Oppentielmcr 



De Beers 



Bank Leu mi 
An§K> American 




National 

Westminster 



Lord Caccia, 
Lord Prior of the 

Knights of St. John 

Jerusalem Foundation 



N.M. Rothschild 



Figure 6 
London's Royal Institute tor International Affairs — 
Drugs and Dirty Money 

The RHA is not composed of the most influential people in Great Britain — 
the inner circle of the British monarchy and the orders of nobility — but 
rather brings together the chief operating officers of the British monarchy's 
policies in various fields. Its leading members include the following: 
Lord Humphrey Trevelyan: Son of the British historian George TrcvcJyan; 
Chairman of the Council of the RHA ; Chairman of the Trustees of the British 
Museum; Chairman of the Committee for the Tutankhamen Exhibit; Eco- 
nomic and Financial Advisor, United Kingdom High Commission for West 
Germany, 1951-53: Ambassador to Egypt. 1955-56; Undersecretary at the 
United Nations. 1958: Ambassador to Iraq, 1958-fil; Oeputy Undersecretary 
of State of the Foreign Office, 1962: Ambassador to the Soviet Union, 1962-65 ; 
High Commissioner in South Arabia. 1967. Director: British Petroleum Co., 
1068-75; British Bank of the Middle liast <10fl percent owned by Hongkong 
and Shanghai Bank); General Klectric Company Ltd,, 1365-75; President, 

Council of Foreign Bondholders. 

Sir (Roland) Mark (Cunliffe) Turner; Council RHA, 1949-50: Chairman Rio 



Tinto Zinc ; Deputy Chairman of the merchant bank Kleinwort Benson Ltd. ; 
Chairman, Bank of America International Ltd. < London), 1971- ; Director! 
National Cash Register; Toronto Dominion Bank; Midland and Inter- 
national Banks Ltd.; formerly with Samuel Montagu and Co.; Ministry of 
Economic Warfare, 1939-44; Undersecretary, Control Office for Germany 
and Austria, 1945-57, 

Sir Frank Roberts: Member of R1IA Council; Advisory Director Unilever; 
Advisor on International Affairs to Lloyds; British Embassy in Paris, 1932- 
35; Cairo, 1935-37; Charge d' Affaires to Czech Government. 1943; Deputy 
High Commissioner to India. 1949-51; Ambassador to Yugoslavia, 1954-57; 
Represenialive to North Atlantic Council. 1957-60; Ambassador to the Soviet 
Union, 1960-62 (preceding RUA Chairman Lord Humphrey Trevelyan); 
Ambassador to West Germany, 1963-68; Vice-President. German Chamber 
of Commerce in the United Kingdom, 107 4-. 

Sir Richard Powell; Member of RIlA Council; Deputy Chairman, Perma- 
nent Committee on Invisible Exports, 1968- ; Deputy Secretary Ministry of 
Defense, 1950-56; Permanent Secretary. Board of Trade, 1960-68: President, 
Institute for Fiscal Studies. 



Jl 



J,R, Robinson* 



B.A.C.Swect-Ewott 



LOfifCfif-Kia 



National 

Westroinslcr 



JAF Blnny 

Deputy Ch inn., 

Natl. Westminster 



British Petroleum 
Sir William J. Keswick 



Kle-wort 
den son 



Jardine Matheson 
Sir John Henry Keswick 



Sir Michael Turner 
Deputy Chmn., 

HongShang 



H. Keswick 

Hereditary Drug- trading 
Family 



0" 






* 



Sweet- 
Escou 



Sir Mark Turner* 



Rio Tinto Zinc 




51% 



Philip deZnluela 
Advisor to post-war 
Tory governments 



Earloflnchcape 



%perceit ownership 



Carmichael C.P. Pocock; Member of Council, RIIA; Managing Director, 
Royal Dutch Shell, 1970- : joined Shell in 1946. 

Sir Arthur Knight Member, RIIA Council; Chairman of Cnurtauld's since 
1975: Director, Rolls Royce. 1971- ; Member, Finance Committee of RIIA, 
1971- ; Court of Governors, London School of Economics, 1971-. 
Andrew Knight: Member, RIIA Council; Editor of Ihe London Economist, 
1974- ; J. Henry Schroeder and WaggCo.. 1962-; Investors Chronicle. 1964. 
Ronald Grieraoii: Economist stafTwriter. 1947-8; S.G. Warburg. 1946-5S, 
executive director 195S-G9 ; Chairman Orion Bank, 1971-75; Director, General 
Electric Ltd: member Trilateral Commission. 

William Malpas Clarke: RIIA Council ; Director, Committee on Invisible Ex- 
ports since 1966: Director, Grindlays Bank Ltd.; Euro money Publications: 
Brandt's Ltd.; The London Times, 1962-66. 

Baron Shawcross: Member. RIIA Council: Director. Shell Transport and 
Trading Co., 1961-72; Morgan et Cie., International. 1966- ; Times News- 
papers Ltd . 1967-74; Hawker Siddeley Group Ltd., 1968-; Chairman. Inter- 
national Advisory Council, Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York until 
1973. 



B.A.C- Sweet Escott: Finance Committee. RIIA; Group Finance Coordina- 
tor, BP Co. Ltd., 1962-; Economic and Overseas Committees, Confederation 
of British Industries; Kleinwort Committee on Invisible Exports. 
J.R. Robinson: Finance Committee, RIIA; director, Eagle Star insurance; 
former director, National Westminster; Finance Director, Rio Tinto Zinc. 
J.P.G. Wathen: Finance Committee. RIIA; General Manager. Barclays 
Bank Dominion, Colonial and Overseas; former manager, Lloyds Bank Ltd. 
Again. Chart 2 shows that the leading members of the London Committee 
of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank have extremely close ties to the core 
RIIA group. The chart also shows that these links continuously intersect two 
major groups whose activities are key to drug wholesaling and large-scale 
laundering of dirty money. The first is the old-line British opium traders, 
including the Peninsular and Oriental Steamship Lines. Jardine Matheson, 
John Swire and Sons, and Charterhouse Japhet. The second is the tightly knit 
complex of world goid and diamonds production and sales. 



l 




N. Baring* 



T 



Baring Bros. 



Consolidated 

Gold Fields 



Johnson 
Matthey 



Midland 



- 



Earl or Inchcape 



Standard & Chartered 



Y ]PAO Lines 



LordCatto 



Lord Catto of Cairncatto is the chairman of the board of the prominent mer- 
chant bank Morgan Grenfell & Co., which has close ties of ownership to Mor-, 
gan etCie. International, one of Lord Shawcross's companies- 
Philip de Zulueta. the private parliamentary secretary to Harold MacMiilan 
when the latter was Prime Minister, advisor to every Tory Prime Minister 
since the war, spent most of his career with the leading British merchant 
bank Hill Samuel , a Iso the largest merchant bank in South Africa ; he i s thus 
in close association with Sir Mark Turner, Rio Tinto Zinc's Chairman. 3nd a 
director of Midland, and International Banks. Samuel Montagu (owned by 
the same families as Hill Samuel), and various goid and other mining 
ventures in which Zulucla has interests. 

Henry Neville Lindley Keswick, of the family that controls Jardine Mathe- 
son. now occupies the traditional .(ardine Mathcson scat on the London 
Committee of th* HongShana. a tradition that goes back to 1864. His father. 
Sir William Johnston Keswick, is also a director of British Petroleum, along 
with Lord Trevelyan, Chairman o: RIIA, and B.A.C. Sweet-Escott of the 
RIIA Finance Committee. The elder Keswick is also the representative of 
drug wholesaling operations in the Far East with respect to drug retailing 
operations in Canada: he is <» director of the Hudson Bay Company (see 
Section 8). H.N. I.. Keswick's uncle David Johnston Keswick has been with 



— 



1 






Lord Humphrey Trevelyan,* 
RHA Chairman 



Baron Shawcrosi' 



Morgan et Cie. 



I 



40% 



Morgan Grenfell 



British Bank of 
the Middle East 



Lord Catto of 
Cairncatto 

Chairman, 

Morgan Grenfell 



P°.Q .ings 



zr 



100% 



RIIA Bankers 



RIIA Council 

Member 



Britfab HoQnden 
5 London Gold Pool 
Banks, leading gold 
and diamond mines. 
dirty money traffic 



Old tine Opium 
Tradfag Compantei 



Hong Kong Si 
Shanghai London 
Committee 
'Central Bank* 
of Opium Trade 



v. * 



Samuel Montagu, a core RIIA bank, since 1930. as well as with the family 
firms. Another uncle. Sir John Henry Keswick, is tte top man for British cor- 
porate policy towards China. He is Chairman of the China Association, Vice- 
President of the Sino-British Trade Council, and a member of the Great Bri- 
tain-China Committee. 

John Kldston Swire, the Swire family's representative on the Hon j<S hang 
board, goes back to World War II with RIIA Council Member Sir Mark 
Turner and various other leading lights of the RIIA, when they all worked on 
the Ministry of Economic Warfare. Sir John Henry Keswick is another 
Ministry of Economics War veteran. 

J.A.F. Binny and R.J. Dent arc both directors of the National Westminster 
Bank, one of the core RU A institutions. 

Sir Michael Turner, who retired as Chairman of the Hongkong and Shanghai 
Bank in 1952 but remains on the London Committee, is stili a director of 
National Westminster Bank. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



161 



8 



■ 



Canada: 

North America's 

Hong Kong 



Most heroin entering North America comes through Canada, 
This is the estimate of authoritative law enforcement sources — 
despite the misleading publicity about Mexican supply routes, 
which are in any case mostly transshipment channels {or Far 
Eastern dope. 

Virtually everything the reader now knows about the British 
Crown Colony of Hong Kong applies to the British Dominion north 
of the American border. The idea that Canada is a nation — in the 
sense that Americans understand the term — is the product of 
low-grade, if persistent, public relations efforts. Politically and 
financially, Canada is run straight from the top hy the British 
monarchy, starting with the Governor-General whom the Queen 
appoints, the Privy Council, and including the core group of 
Knights of St. John of Jerusalem who control the bulk of Cana- 
dian business. 

Canada's role in the drug flow to the U.S. is not much different 
from its role during Prohibition — as we will document in Part III 
of this report. Canada transships most of the heroin entering the 
American market, because it was created and maintained as a 



'■V 



British Dominion on the northern flank of the United States to 
carry out precisely such operations. 

Despite the British monarchy's iron grip over the highest levels 
of Canadian public life, there are a few individuals well placed in 
Canada, including in its law enforcement services, who look to 
America rather than Britain as a model for Canada's future. At 
great risk to themselves, they have fought a long rearguard 
action against criminal activities that enjoy near official sanc- 
tion. The American public has heard little of their efforts because 
of Canada's Official Secrets Act, modeled on Great Britain's own 
191] Official Secrets Act. That legislation prevents any publica- 
tion or public discussion of what the government — that is, the 
British-appointed Governor-General — chooses to regard as a 
state secret. Given Canada's make-up, most drug-running, dirty 
money laundering, and organized crime activity, including polit- 
ical terrorism, fall into that category. Anyone who writes about 
this in Canada will go to jail immediately and could, under the 
law, be executed. But without the help of Canadian citizens with 
access to official sources, willing to take the risk, this report 
could not have been written. 

Three crucial cases 



Before examining the structure of Canada's drug and dirty 
money operations, a few leading examples will suffice to indicate 
the nature of the problem. One is the personage of Walter Lock- 
hart Gordon. Honorary Chairman for Life of the Canadian Insti- 
tute of International Affairs (CIIA), the Canadian offshoot of the 
British Royal Institute of International Affairs. The CIIA re- 
ceives most of its funding directly from the office of the Govern- 
or-General. Every Canadian Secretary of State for External 
Affairs since the CIIA's founding has been a CIIA member. The 
CIIA is also the official sponsor of the Institute for Pacific Rela- 
tions, the nexus of Britain's Peking Connection (Sections 6 and 7) , 
after public scandal forced the Institute for Pacific Relations to 
leave the United States after 1947. 



160 



-A. 



16? 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



163 



1. WALTER LOCKHART GORDON 
Walter Lockhart Gordon's fingerprints show up throughout this 
section. Apart from his lifetime post at the top of the CIIA, he is a 
past chairman of the Privy Council, the Governor-Generals 
select operations group for running Canadian politics (1967-68); 
he was finance minister from 1963 to 1965; and is a director of 
some of the dirtiest corporate operations in Canada. 

But most important, he founded Clarkson and Gordon, the 
accountants firm that audits three of the five Canadian chartered 
banks: Bank of Nova Scotia (of which Gordon is a director), 
Toronto Dominion Bank, and Canadian Imperial Bank. Gordon's 
partner, Stephen Clarkson, is also a leading member of the Cana- 
dian Institute of International Affairs, as well as a leading spon- 
sor of the Institute for Pacific Relations. Through a network of 
accountants dispersed through these banks, Clarkson and 
Gordon functions as a command center for the most extensive 
dirty money laundering operation in the world, stretching from 
the heroin receiving points in the Pacific Northwest, to the 
branch operations of the Canadian banks in the Caribbean Silver 

Triangle. 

Gordon, as we shall detail below, is also Canada's chief con- 
tact-man for the Peking Connection (see Section 7) . 

2. THE EAGLE STAR INSURANCE COMPANY 
A second example is the group of British "spooks" who run the 
Eagle Star Insurance Company, which heads the accompanying 
chart of the Canadian drug networks. Eagle Star is one of Brit- 
ain's largest financial corporations, and a joint operation be- 
tween Britain's top financial firms, including Barclays Bank, 
Lloyds, Hill Samuel, andNJVL Rothschild & Sons. 

Eagle Star, as the chart shows, runs the Bronfman family 
operation from the top, through its control of English Properties, 
and English Properties' control of the "Bronfman" Trizec 
Corporations. 

The Bronfmans are what is known in intelligence jargon as 
"cutouts." or controlled front-men. What is significant here is 
Eagle Star's special qualifications for controlling the Bronfman 
family's corporate group, which, in turn, has been the seat of 






Canada's rum- and dope-running, dirty money, and terrorist 
operations since Prohibition. 

Eagle Star's management is British intelligence, by an ar- 
rangement that traces back to World War II. 

Two Eagle Star directors, Sir Kenneth Strong and Sir Kenneth 
Keith, were Number One and Number Two men, respectively, in 
British intelligence immediately after World War II — when the 
Bronfman family created its "legitimate" front Trizec with 
Eagle Star funding, (i) Both men have kept up their close ties to 
Britain's foreign intelligence service, MI6. Part III of this report 
tells the story of the Bronfman family's dope-running, organized 
crime, and terrorist activities. What is crucial to keep in mind 
here is that the men who own the Bronfmans sit in the highest 
councils of British covert operations. 

In a pattern that has already become familiar, Sir Kenneth 
Keith moves between the secret world of British intelligence and 
the opium politics of the Far East. Keith is also a leading mem- 
ber of the Canadian Institute of International Affairs. Among 
other leading corporate positions, including a directorship at 
Canada's Bank of Nova Scotia, he is the chairman of the Hill Sam- 
uel group of companies, one of the leading British merchant 
banks, and an incarnation of the old Samuel banking family's 
interests. 

Sitting with Sir Kenneth Keith on the board of directors of Hill 
Samuel is the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank's Sir Philip de 
Zulueta, member of the HongShang's controlling "London Com- 
mittee." Zulueta was private parliamentary secretary to a string 
of British Conservative prime ministers while Sir Kenneth Strung 
was completing his career at British intelligence. 

Eagle Star is a sterling example of Canada's role in drugs be- 
cause it contains every element of the drug machine: the Bronf- 
man family, which has spokes tying into the Zionist dirty money 
and terrorist apparat; the top levels of British intelligence; and 
the core of the opium trade, the HongShang itself . 

3. THE HUDSON'S BAY COMPANY 

The Hudson's Bay Company is the appropriate starting point for 
a look inside the operations of Canada's drug machine. During 



M. 



1&4 



DOPE, IMC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



Prohibition, it was the Bronfman's Seagram's partner in the 
"Pure Drug Company." the main source of bootleg liquor during 
Canada's dry period. 

The Hudson's Bay is also a front for the grand old families of the 
opium trade, the Inchcape and Keswick families, the proprietors, 
respectively, of the Peninsular and Orient Steamship Company, 
the world's (and the Far East's) largest shipping fleets, and Jar- 
dine Matheson, Hong Kong's dominant trading company. The 2nd 
Earl of Inchcape, whose son still runs the P&O lines, wrote the 
notorious 1923 Inchcape report advocating the continuation of 
opium production in the Far East to maintain British revenues. 
The number two man today at the P&O, Vice-Chairman of the 
board Eric Drake, sits on the board of Hudson's Bay. 

Jardine Matheson's Sir William Johnston Keswick — the chair- 
man of the Shanghai Municipal Settlements during the 1930s peak 
of Shanghai heroin traffic — only recently retired as a director of 
the Hudson's Bay Company. 

William Johnston Keswick and Sir Eric Drake also sit together 
on the board of British Petroleum, next to Lord Humphrey Trevel- 
yan, the chairman of the council of the Royal Institute of inter- 
national Affairs and Britain's charge d'affaires in Peking during 
the critical years 1951-53. 

Drake is also a director of the top British merchant bank Klein- 
wort Benson. As noted in Section 7, Kleinwort Benson's wholly- 
owned subsidiary Sharps Pixley Ward jointly runs the Hong Kong 
gold market with the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, a crucial 
support operation for the Far East drug traffic. Drake's fellow 
director, the deputy chairman of Kleinwort Benson, is Sir Mark 
Turner, of Rio Tinto Zinc. Rio Tinto Zinc, in turn, was founded by 
Matheson family money in the 1840s, and Mathesons ran Rio 
Tinto Zinc until the turn of the century. To complete the circle, 
William Johnston Keswick sits on the hoard of Jardine Matheson, 
along with several directors of Sir Eric Drake's P&O Steamship 
Company. 

In other words, the Hudson's Bay Company, the most "Cana- 
dian 1 ' of companies, is run from the top by a combination of Far 
Eastern old-line drug traffickers and their closest London 
contacts. 



4 
I 






J- 
V 



... 



;. 



■- 



f: 

< 



v 



I 



The Hong Kong opium connection goes even further. Sir Wil- 
liam Keswick's son, Henry Neville Lindley Keswick, a board 
member of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, is also a director of 
MacMillan Bloedel, one of Canada's biggest pulp and paper 
operations, closely tied to the Macmillan publishing interests. 
The Macmilians took off as a Canadian family when Harold Mac- 
millan— later British prime minister at the time of the Kennedy 
Administration — married the daughter of Canada's Governor- 
General the Queen's personal representative. The Governor- 
General in question was the 9th Duke of Devonshire, Victor C.W. 
Cavendish, who held office 1916-20 at the outset of Prohibition; his 
son-in-law Harold Macmillan became his chief assistant in 
Canada in 1919, the same year that Arnold Rothstein set up the 
big liquor delivery contacts in England. The Governor-General's 
son William helped Joe Kennedy make contacts among big Eng- 
lish distilleries. The MacMillan interests started with Prohibi- 
tion. Today, through their association with William Johnston 
Keswick — who personally ran the Shanghai heroin traffic during 
the 1930s — they are up to their necks in the drug trade. 

Canadian Pacific Ltd., the biggest company in Canada, holds a 
controlling interest in MacMillan Bloedel. 

Dope goes in, dirty money goes out 

According to high-level Canadian intelligence sources, most of 
the heroin that reaches North America is flown in through Cana- 
dian Pacific Air. There is no "smoking Run" evidence to substan- 
tiate-this, but a November 1978 trial in Vancouver reveals evi- 
dence that Canadian Pacific was involved in the smuggling of 22 
pounds of cocaine from Hong Kong. 

Figure 7 neatly traces the flow of heroin and dirty money in 
Canada: the drugs come in through Canadian Pacific and then 
are conduited to points south of the border. Heavily interlocked 
with the Western Canada connection is the Bronfman group, 
whose corporate center is Seagram , and whose financial center is 
the Trizec group. Since Prohibition, Seagram has handled the 
flow of smuggling into the United States (see Part III) . 



166 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



167 



Both Seagram (and its old Prohibition rum-running partner, 
Hudson's Bay) are interlocked through a maze of contacts with all 
five of the big Canadian chartered banks : the Bank of Montreal. 
the Royal Bank of Canada, the Bank of Nova Scotia, the Toronto 
Dominion Bank, and the Canada Imperial Bank. Thus the dirty 
money gleaned from the drag trade is conducted through these 
banks to points further south: the banks' offshore centers in the 
Caribbean and from there the money makes its whirlpool round 

of worldwide laundering. 

Canada's Big Five dominate all Canadian banking as fiercely 
as the British Big Four — Barclays, National Westminster, 
Lloyds, and Midlands — do in Britain. Unlike the United States, 
which has a relatively broadly spread base of regional hanking. 
Canadian and British banking is run from the top by the institu- 
tions named. The Canadian institutions are barely distinguish- 
able in their current practice From the British buccaneers who' 
plied the Caribbean during the 17 lb century. Along with the Brit- 
ish banks, which have numerous joint ventures wilh the Cana- 
dians — e.g.. the Royal Bank operates in the Bahamas under the 
"Roy West" cover in a joint venture with National Westminster — 
they arc the core of the dirty money operations offshore of the 

United States. 

The Royal Bank of Canada has 21 affiliates in offshore banking 

and subsidiaries — more than any other bank in the world save 
Barclays Bank. Royal Bank's "Roy West*' connection to the 
National Westminster Bank tics it closely to the Hongkong and 
Shanghai bank itself: HongShang has two mutual directors with 
National Westminster, J.A.F. Binny and R.D, Dent. Dent is the 
descendant of the old-line British opium trading family that 
founded Lancelot Dent about the same time that Jardine 
Matheson appeared. 

Among other links, the Royal Bank of Canada is tied to the 
Bronfmans through Neil Phillips — son of Lazarus Phillips, the 
Bronfman family's lawyer and most trusted aide from Prohibi- 
tion until the 1950s. 

CANADA'S SILVER TRIANGLE 

Royal Bank has the dirtiest reputation of any bank in the Carib- 
bean. According to authoritative diplomatic sources, the Royal 



I- 



■r 

i 



r 

1i 



I- 



k 



i- 
■ • 



Bank of Canada directly ordered the Guyanese government to 
plant marijuana in order to raise foreign exchange income. In 
197C, when Guyana went flat broke and applied to the Interna- 
tional Monetary Fund for emergency assistance. Royal Bank of 
Canada officials met with senior members of the Guyana govern- 
ment. The Royal Bank insisted that Guyana transform its eco- 
nomy into a "cash crop" producer before it, or any other major 
bank, would issue loans. The Guyanese were desperate and did 
what they were told. Northwest Guyana, in consequence, has 
become a maior producer of marijuana for the North American 
market. 

Second in the Caribbean offshore centers to the Royal Bank is 
the Bank of Nova Scotia — Walter Lockhart Gordon's bank. A top 
Bronfman aide and figure in Canadian Zionist organizations, 
R.D, Wolfe, sits both on the board of Seagram and the Bank of 
Nova Scotia. Scotiabank has 13 branches in offshore centers, as 
well as innumerable joint ventures and similar fronts. 

Banking and diplomatic sources agree that the Bank of Nova 
Scotia is the number one handler of flight capital out of Carib- 
bean countries, especially troubled countries such as Jamaica. 
Apart from funds fleeing difficult political situations, much, if not 
most, of all illegal money transfers out of the Caribbean. A large 
portion of Jamaican illegal funds are conducted through a Jamai- 
can national currently employed in a senior position at the big 
New York brokerage house Drexel Burnham Lambert, (2) 

Scotiabank'^ Jamaican trade is a particularly filthy business, 
since it involves shifting funds earned in Jamaica by local crimi- 
nals into safe havens; The cash side of the Jamaican operations, 
according to law enforcement sources, is done more with arms 
than drugs. Planes fly into Jamaica with loads of small arms, 
and take loads of marijuana out. The retail side in Jamaica is 
arms selling. The ultimate cash proceeds of the selling chain are 
then laundered through Scotiabank. 

The Bank of Nova Scotia's role in Canadian gold markets, 
through its own trading operations and its interlock with the 
chairman of the second-largest Canadian gold trader, Noranda 
Mines, was already noted in Section 4. According to informed 
New York gold market sources, a substantial proportion of Nova 




16$ 



DOPE, \HC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



169 



Scotia's flight capital operations are accomplished through ille- 
gal purchases of gold by Jamaican and other nationals. The same 
sources add that Dr. Henry Jarecki's Mocatta Metals in New 
York (see Section 4 again) has a substantial share of Caribbean 
dirty money traffic. 

The Canada-Peking connection 

The starting point of any examination of Canadian drug traffic 
is Walter Lockhart Gordon's close relationship to Canadian 
Pacific. Gordon is Canada's grand old man. Honorary Chairman 
of the Canadian Institute of International Affairs for Life, top 
leader of the ruling Liberal Party, finance minister after 1963. 
and chief foreign policy-maker in Canada for the past 30 years. 

Gordon sits on the board of directors of Canadian Pacific and 
the Bank of Nova Scotia; his accounting firm, Clarkson and Gor- 
don, handles the accounts of the Bank of Nova Scotia, Toronto 
Dominion Bank, and Canadian Imperial Bank. 

THE GO BETWEEN 
Authoritative Canadian intelligence sources further identify 
Gordon as the controller of Canada's three leading China special- 
ists, Paul Lin, James Endicott, and Chester Ronning. whom we 
met earlier in Section 7. The association goes back in the cases of 
Endicott and Ronning to the end of World War II, when the two 
returned from close collaboration with Chou En-lai, to become 
the core of the transplanted Institute for Pacific Relations in 
Canada. 

Based in Montreal, Paul Lin is the go-between for Walter Gor- 
don and the Vancouver, British Columbia drug wholesaling and 
transshipment operations. Lin's most important contact is the 
former president of drug-shipping Canadian Pacific, John D. Gil- 
mer. Gilmer is a Knight of St. John of Jerusalem, and the patron 
of People's Republic of China fronts on Canada's West Coast. 
Paul Lin is his personal attorney. 

In turn, Gilmer is the attorney for two open representatives of 
the People's Republic of China in Vancouver, B.C., the Chinese 
Commercial Corporation and the Chinese Cultural Center. The 



t 



■'■ 



S 



Chinese Cultural Center in Vancouver receives funding from an- 
other Knight of St. John, John Robert Nicholson, a close associate 
of Gilmer. 

Both Gilmer and Nicholson are major funders of the Simon 
Fraser University in Vancouver, which became the home of the 
Institute for Pacific Relations after it was driven out of the 
United States. Paul Lin's brother, Dr. Tsing Lin, is currently 
employed at the Institute for Pacific Relations. All these men 
have been working together since the Institute for Pacific Rela- 
tions, as detailed in Section 7, served as the Royal Institute of 
International Affairs bridgehead into the United States, and 
Chester Ronning was meeting weekly with Wang Ping-nan and 
occasionally with Chou En-lai in Chungking. 

Endicott, now an old man, created the leading North American 
center of explicit Maoism, the Norman Bethune Institute at York 
University. Walter Gordon was the university's chancellor for 
many years. Gordon personally arranged the funding of the 
Bethune Institute, named after a Canadian doctor who served in 
Mao's armies. 

Gordon's accounting firm Clarkson and Gordon tries to keep its 
nose clean of. overt involvement in the drug trade. But one of its 
escapades caused a public scandal in Canada five years ago. 
Clarkson and Gordon put together the funding for Rochdale 
College in Toronto, an experimental university that Quickly 
became the most drug-ridden college campus in Canada. By the 
early 1970s Rochdale College had become not only a main center 
of illegal drugs consumption, but also the retail distribution point 
for marijuana and hallucinogens throughout most of Eastern 
Canada, When the story inevitably became headline material in 
the early 1970s, Canadian police were compelled to shut it down, 
as a matter of public decency. Clarkson and Gordon, who had 
created Rochdale College, sadly took the drug-ridden remnant 
back, acting as its receiver and liquidator. 

Who rules Canada 

But the company to which Gordon is closest is Canadian Paci- 
fic, which controls most of the dominion's air, sea, and land 




Figure 7 

Drug- Running-— The Canadian Connection 



FAR EAST 
DRUG 

TRAFFIC 

■Vanco-iver) 





CANADIAN 

PACIFIC 

J.C. Gilmer 
former ptasiddnl 



G.A. Hart. Ct>m. Bank o 1 Monlrea! 



W.G. McLaughlin, Chm. Royal BarK 



CHARLESfl.BP.QNrMAN 



lai Sinclair, Chm Canadian Pacific 



F.S. Burbidoe. Pres. Canadian Peii^jc 



William A Artijckle. V.P. Oar* o< Montreal 



MacMHlan 
Bloedei 



H-N.L Keswitfc' 



WJ.KES'.VCK' 



Pre h* hi (ion Operations 
Imo J-S, 



J. Banlett worQan 



VVALTEPl-OCKHAKTGOnnDN*. CtiW. CIA 



-.C f.'arT'inn 



j.H. Moore onm. orascan 



Hami>ios 
Rotr sen ilea 
HiiiSwriLe, 



I 



BeftS' 3-001 
London T : mFs 
Lloyds Ban* 



Eagle Star Insurance 



F,nglish Properties, Ltd. 



CARIBBEAN 
DIRTY MONEY 




Bank of 
Montreal 



CHARLES RRO^M.VJ 



F'KH McNeil 



- „ • 


Joint Operations 1 


1 i 


Ui i&nijlair. Royal Bank 


CLdtiyrufMOluor ■ 


N«?!ir.P|-illps 


Royal Bank 
of Canada 


"■ 1 M 


l£l Ba 'day 










HUDSON'S BAY CO. 


n »"l. ill i j 


j 






H D WoCe 


Bank of 
Nova Scotia 












.-j_.^ 1 






SIR ERIC ORAKE*. 


l L. Koibfir 7 ion -$1 LODbv 


Clarksoi. Gordon & Co. 




Toronto 
Dominion Bank 


^T. 




P&OLires 








1 

Ciarksor. Ga'don 6 Co 


Marcel Belan^Rf 


Canadian 
Imperial Bank 













ill 
■j 
B 

9: 




'far Cast Opium Punrtr; 



172 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



173 



transportation. It has directors in virtually every industry it does 
not control- As the accompanying chart demonstrates, it is inter- 
locked three ways with Seagram Ltd., the core of the Bronfman 
group. The chart only shows a handful of Canadian Pacific's links 
to the five major chartered banks; no fewer than U of its direc- 
tors sit on their boards, 
Most important, Canadian Pacific features no fewer than four 

members of the Most Venerable Order of St John of Jerusalem 
on its board. They include the aforementioned JC. Gilmer of Van- 
couver, the angel for every Maoist front in the city; W.E. 
McLaughlin, the chairman of the board of the aforementioned 
Royal Bank of Canada; and J.P.W*. Ostiguy. 

Only one other corporation in the world, Barclays Bank, con- 
tains more members of the British monarchy's most elite order 
among its directors. That fact alone establishes Canadian Paci- 
fic's vassalhood before the feudal rights of the British monarchy. 
In terms of Canada's real chain of command, it is an honor for 
Charles R. Bronfman to sit on Canadian Pacific's board. 

The concentration of Knights of Malta on the council of the 
Canadian Pacific Company also clears up — from a professional 
intelligence standpoint — why that company has special access 
to the Far Eastern narcotics traffic. The chairman of the board of 
the HongKong and Shanghai Bank from 1962 to 1970 was Sir 
Michael Turner. When the current chairman, M.G. Sandberg. 
replaced Turner in 1970, he remained on the "London Commit- 
tee" of the HongShang (as well as the board of directors of 
National Westminster Bank, with two of his fellow HongShang 
directors). Sandberg was created Commander of St. John, a 
high-ranking position in the elite order, in I960. He is still the 
chairman of the Council of St. John — the organization of the 
Knights — in Hong Kons- The company most under the direction 
of the Knights of Malta in Canada deals directly with the chief of 

their order in Hong Kong. 

At the other end of the Canadian drug cycle, the dirty money 
banks, each of the five Canadian dirty money banks has at least 
one Knight of Malta on its board. The Canadian Imperial Bank 
and the Bank of Nova Scotia are directed by three Knights of 
Malta each. 






'.■ 



In addition, there is no question that the Canadian Institute of 
International Affairs — which has picked every Canadian foreign 
minister of this century — is not a Canadian institution, but the 
local branch of the British monarchy's most elite chivalric order. 
Canada's former Governor-General, Roland Michener, and cur- 
rent chairman of the.CIEA is also a Knight of St. John. A board 
member of the Italian branch of the Order of St. John, the Order 
of St. Lazarus, is a member of the CI! A's board, Henry R. Jack- 
man. J.J. Jodrey, another board member, is also a Knight of St. 
John. 

The Order of St. John respects the same chain of command as 
do Canada's Governor-General and Privy Council; the Queen of 
England, who is the titular head of the Order, and the Queen's 
cousin, the Duke of Gloucester, who is Grand Prior to the Order. 
These men control the finances and logistics of Canada's eco- 
nomy. Through a series of " cutouts, M like the Bronfman family, 
they also control the drug-running, the organized crime, and the 
political terrorism directed against the United States. 

There has been little effective challenge to their rule of these 
forces in Canada since 1910. when then-Prime Minister de 
Laurier attempted to organize a counterweight from within the 
British dominions, including support from then Prime Minis- 
ter of South Africa, Botha. LordMilnor, whom we profiled earlier 
in Section 7, traveled to Canada in 1906 to avert what would have 
been a catastrophe in the eyes of the British monarchy. 

Milner's visit, which founded the Canadian Round Table Group 
— the mother organization of Walter Lockhart Gordon's Cana- 
dian Institute of International Affairs — was ultimately success- 
ful. Robert Borden, a Milner protege, replaced de Laurier in 1910, 
and Canada was secured for the Prohibition offensive against the 
United Stales. Robert Borden's descendant Henry Borden still 
sits on the Council of the Canadian Institute of International 
Affairs. 

The project is best summarized in a letter that Rudyard Kip- 
ling, the swastika- wielding racist who helped found Canada's 
Institute of International Affairs, wrote to Lord Milner after the 
de Laurier initiative failed: 

"This busts the de Laurier-Botha liaison," Kipling wrote, "in 



_i 



1/4 



DOPE, INC 



what are called our imperial Councils. Additionally, Australia 
will be deprived of big sister's (i.e. Canada's — ed.) example as 
an excuse for nibbling after American 'protection' on her behalf 
. . . and I do believe it smashes French power for good. Seriously, 
don't you think it's the best thing that's happened to us in ten 
years? Also, we've worked very hard for it." (3) 



■: 



9 



All In the Family: 
The Real Syndicate 



Why, if so much detailed evidence on the world narcotics 
traffic exists in the public record or in the files of law enforce- 
ment agencies, has this picture remained hidden for so long? The 
answer put forward at the outset was that the "Purloined Letter" 
principle is in effect: the HongShang and other top traffickers 
who mingle freely in the business world were designed speci- 
fically to hide the drug trade behind a facade of legitimate 
finance. At bottom, that fraud may deceive the general public, 
-but it could not— by itself— hold professional investigators at hav 
indefinitely. The more important answer lies deeper. 

The answer takes the reader behind the corporate board rooms 
and precious metal exchanges to the inner life of the British elite. 
What we now present would be easier to explain in the format of 
fiction than of fact: the entire world drug traffic has been run by 
a single Family since its inception. That statement applies not 
merely to growing and distribution, but to political, intelligence, 
and ideological support as well. We will sketch out the animal in 
this section and in the accompanying chart- 
Popular accounts of the Italian organized crime families, or 



175 




DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WOflKS 



177 



their counterparts in the Jewish and expatriate Chinese banking 
groups, give the reader a starting point whence to look at Great 
Britain's oligarchy. Britain's elite, in a superficial sense, runs 
along lines not much different from the organized crime families. 
The Keswick family of Jardine Matheson. the Inchcape family of 
the Peninsular and Orient Steamship Co., the Russells, the Dukes 
of Sutherland and Elgin, appear and reappear in this account, 
from the first Opium War to the directors' lists of the most 
prominent British banks. The same interbreeding dynasty 
controls every major bank, mining, and transportation company 
in London, including the HongShang T Jardine Matheson, 
Barclays Bank, Anglo-American Corporation, N.M. Rothschild, 
and Lazard Freres. As we will show, their cousins and in-laws 
also control Britain's political and intelligence establishments, 
and have done so throughout the entire time-frame of this 

report. 

After a more careful look, however, the "Mafia" image turns 
out to be something like a pornographic negative : the Italian, 
Jewish. Ch'ao Chou Chinese, and other ethnic minorities that 
figure in aspects of the narcotics traffic are fitting allies of the 
British oligarchy because their tight-knit family networks 
parallel it. But the British dynasty is deeper, more sinister than 
that. The dynasty enjoys such power in Britain that a favored 
nephew can clear opium shipments through Hong Kong, while an 
uncle clears payments through a big London bank, a second 
cousin expedites necessary gold shipments through the Hong 
Kong market, and an in-law in British intelligence reassures the 
American drug enforcement authorities. 

To call this a "conspiracy" would abuse the meaning of the 
term. Under examination is a dynasty thai has controlled Britain 
for hundreds of years, enjoys virtually all major positions of 
corporate and political power, and believes that making events 
happen from behind the scenes is as natural and ordinary as 
afternoon tea. When the chairmen of the boards of Britain's 
leading banks, trading houses, and mining companies show up at 
the same weddings and christenings (and bar mitzvahs) as the 
chiefs of British intelligence and various government ministries, 
there is no need for the formal trappings of conspiracy. Conspira- 






! 



torial rituals are useful to bind together secret societies 
composed of otherwise unorganized individuals. But it doesn't 
work that way at the top. In a frank discussion, a Lazard Frercs 
partner who is quite active in the Royal Institute of International 
Affairs exclaimed. "You seem to think that a group of men meets 
secretly in a room somewhere to hatch plots about this or that. I 
can assure you that it doesn't work that way ! " 

The British gentleman is entirely within his rights. Like the 
HongShang Bank itself, the British oligarchy is so much part of 
the bedrock of events that it does not need to act in conspiratorial 
fashion: by its own self -description, it merely is, and always has 
been. Us adherents have indulged in public self-examination only 
under the protective coloring of fiction, e.g. a famous novel by a 
member of one of the British secret societies, Bram Stoker's 
Dracttla. Of that secret society, the "Order of the Golden Dawn," 
more will be said below. 

THE FAMILY RELIGION 

The sinister element that sets the British oligarchy apart from 
the popular image of the Mafia family is its unshakable belief 
that it alone is fit to rule the world— the view reflected in Cecil 
Rhodes's 1877 Testament, cited in Section 7. Their religion is not 
the Anglican Christianity they publicly profess, but a hodge- 
podge of paganism, including satanic cults such as Theosophy 
and Rosier ucianism. The central, syncretic ideology of the 
oligarchy's inner cult life is the revived Egyptian drug cult, the 
myth of Isis and Osiris, the same anti-Christian cult that ran the 
Roman Empire. And like the ancient Isis-worshipping Egyptian 
dynasties, the British ruling family networks have maintained 
power for centuries by keeping the secrets of their intrigues with- 
in the family. 

The Isis cull also formed the core of Lord Palmerston's 
Scottish Rite of Freemasonry. As Prime Minister during both 
Opium Wars, Palmerston employed variants of this ideology to 
spin a web of connections that stretched from the Order of Zion in 
Romania to the Ku Klux Klan in the United States. Parts I and I It 
of this report document how Palmerston's Scottish Rite 
engendered the subterranean world of drug-related mysticism. 



A 



178 



DOPE, IMC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



179 



and its various secret societies > including what the public now 
calls "Organized Crime.' 1 (1) 

The Cult of Isis, dredged up in modern format, was the official 
ideology of leading British politicians, financiers, and literary 
figures during the previous century. Its great public exponent 
was the colonial secretary during the Second Opium War. 
Edward Bulwer-Lytton, the author of The Last Days of Pompeii, 
which first popularized the Isis cult, and the mentor of Cecil 
Rhodes's whole generation of British imperialists. 

The Royal Institute of International Affairs was the "secret 
society" called for in Rhodes's will and is the body that provides 
the command structure for the drug trade. But the Royal Insti- 
tute itself was founded by an even more secret group: the "Circle 
of Initiates - . - devoted to the extension of the British Empire," 
in the description of one of its historians. (2) The Circle of Ini- 
tiates included Lord Milner; Cecil Rhodes, the founder of 
Britain's African mining empire; future prime minister Arthur 

Balfour; Albert Grey; and Lord Rothschild. 

All these men celebrated forms of the Isis cult. Their world- 
view was largely designed by Britain's loading exponent of the 
Isis cult, novelist Edward Bulwer-Lytton, and his protege John 
Ruskin. Britain's High Priest of Isis, Bulwer-Lytton, was also the 
British government's chief drug-runner. 

The words of American Founding Father Tom Paine to charac- 
terize British King George III, against whom America fought the 
Revolutionary War, thus are highly appropriate: "I rejected the 
hardened, sullen-tempered Pharaoh of England forever . . . and 
disdain the wretch. "(3) 



The beginning: the Knights of 

St. John of Jerusalem 



7, 
I 

■ 
■ ' 



drug traffic: from the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank to the 
Canadian Pacific in Vancouver to Barclays Bank in London. 
Although Queen Victoria reconstituted the Most Venerable Order 
in the 1860s as the Protestant British branch of the Knights of 
Malta, our tale properly begins much earlier with the original 
order of the Knights of St. John, founded in Jerusalem in 1070. 
The order of St. John inherited what British authors smirkingly 
call "the wisdom of the East" from the Coptic, Gnostic, and 
Manichean networks of the Eastern Mediterranean. The Order of 
St. John thus maintained direct continuity with the ancient Cult 
of Isis. 

However distant from the familiarity of the American reader, 
the area we have entered must be viewed the way the families 
themselves see it. The brooding evil of Walter Scott or Robert 
Louis Stevenson romances, or their cheap Gothic novel imita- 
tions, gives the reader a basis for insight into the inner history of 
the families, and the need to begin with cobwebbed history in 
order to get to the bottom of Dope, Incorporated. 

To begin at the beginning: in the 14th century, the Order of St. 
John's emergence in England was part of a project to annihilate 
its humanist opposition, the Knights Templar. Total warfare 
had broken out on the continent. The oligarchists in France and 
Italy. Philip the Fair and Pope Clement V, slaughtered hundreds 
of Templars, and burned the Templars' courageous Grand 
Master, Jacques de Molay, at the stake in 1314, 

A renegade group of Templars under the command of an 
adventurous thug, King Robert Bruce, grabbed Scotland — 
Europe's least civilized outpost — as an "offshore" stronghold, 
as a form of insurance against their uncertain fortunes on the 
European continent. King Robert Bruce is not only the spiritual 
founder of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry but the direct 
ancestor, by unbroken lineage, of all the men of evil in England 
who figure in this report. 



The elite of the elite in Britain's secret dynastic life is Her 
Majesty's Most Venerable Order of St. John of Jerusalem — the 
"Christians who are not really Christians/' (4) We have already 
highlighted the Knights 1 prominence in the centers of the world 



After the death of Jacques du Molay, some Scottish 
Templars. . . at the instigation of Robert Bruce ranged 
themselves under the banners of a New Order (The Royal 
Order of Scotland) instituted by this prince. . . It is there 




iao 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



181 



that we must seek the origin of the Scottish masonry. 
(emphasis added) (5) 

This statement by a leading historian of the Masonic 
movement is the standard interpretation of the origin of the 
Scottish rite. 

■ 

The Family's Opium Wars 

As the accompanying Family Tree indicates, there is a direct 
lineage from the King Robert Bruce to the British officials who 
ran the first opium wars against China. James Bruce, the 8th 
Eari of Elgin — after supervising the Caribbean slave trade as 
Jamaican Governor General from 1842-46 — was appointed 
Ambassador and Minister Plenipotentiary to China from 1857 to 
ISfil — the period covering the Second Opium War against China. 
His brother Frederick Bruce had been Colonial Secretary at 
Hong Kong during the mopping- up operations following the First 
Opium War and returned to China in 185? to assist his brother in 
delivering the British government's ultimatum to the Chinese 

emperor. (6)' 
The British Dictionary of National Biography summarizes the 

Chinese career of the elder Bruce succinctly : 

In 1857 Elgin was sent as envoy to China. On reaching 
Singapore he was met by letters from Lord Canning 
informing him of the Indian mutiny, and urging him to send 
trqops to Calcutta and from the force which was to 
accompany him to China. With this requisition he at once 
complied, sending in fact the whole of the force, hut he 
proceeded himself to Hong Kong in the expectation that 
troops would speedily follow. . . . 

He repaired to Calcutta Later in the year he 

returned to China, fresh troops having been sent out (to 
replace those which had been directed to India — ed.) .... 
Canton was speedily taken and some months later a treaty 
was made at Tientsin, providing, among other matters, for 
the appointment of a British minister, for additional 






facilities for British trade (i.e., opium — ed.). . . and for a 
war indemnity, (emphasis added) 

■ 

Elgin returned to England in 1859. 

In the following year he was again sent to China, the 
Emperor having failed to ratify the treaty of Tientsin and 
having committed other unfriendly acts. . . . The military 
opposition (to Elgin's mass addiction policy — ed.) was not 
effective, but the Chinese resorted to treachery. (Chinese 
forces killed some British troops enforcing opium distribu- 
tion — ed.). In retribution for this treacherous act, the 
summer palace, the favorite residence of the Emperor at 
Peking, was destroyed. A few days later the treaty of 
Tientsin was formally ratified, (7) 

The account concludes that Elgin's "letters show he was a man of 
warm affections, eminently domestic, with very decided convic- 
tions on religion. 

Who was running England at the time? The prime minister was 
the same Lord Palmerston who turned the Scottish Rite into 
Britain's leading cash-producing export product. The foreign 
secretary was Lord John Russell, son of the 6th Duke of Bedford, 
and grandfather of Britain's most dangerous 20th century 
intelligence operative — Bertrand Russell. 

Palmerston and Russell were relatives of the Bruce brothers, 
the Elgin peerage, by marriage into the direct line of Order of St. 
John control over England.. The branch that encompasses 
Britain's two leading cabinet ministers during the Second Opium 
War is the Villiers line. The line began with George Villiers, who 
assisted Robert Cecil and Edward Bruce in seizing the English 
throne for another descendant of Robert Bruce — James I of 
Scotland — in 1603. (8) 

Lord Russell's daughter, Victoria, married into the Villiers 
family. Russell's grandson, Bertrand. amnng his other covert 
operations, maintained liaison with Chou En-lai throughout the 
postwar period on behalf of British intelligence, at the height of 
the Anglo-Chinese drug traffic. (9) 



182 



DOPE, INC. 



Even more significant is the third member of the London team 
during the Opium Wars — Colonial Secretary Edward Bulwer- 
Lytton, a relation by marriage of the Duke of Wellington. His son 
married Edith Villiers, of the same branch of the leading Order 
of St. John dynasty. 



The imperial cultists and opium 

Bulwer-Lytton is best known to Americans through his 183S 
novel. The Last Days of Pompeii, but he is also both the spiritual 
father of the Rhodes-Milner secret societies and of Nazi fascism. 
A mystic and prenascent fascist, Bulwer-Lytton led the English 
Rosicrucians. a branch of the Scottish Rite Masons headed by his 
Prime Minister Palmerston. 

Unlike the comparatively closed members of the British elite 
around him, Bulwer-Lytton was an outspoken exponent of the Isis 
cult, which formed the subject of his famous novel. His 
popularized Isis myth was the inspiration for an entire array of 
warped imitations. 

Included among these was Helena Blavatsky's book, Isis 
Unveiled, and her Theosophist cult. Theosophy was the Satanic 
bible of the mystic secret societies, including Germany's 
"Thule" group, which produced most of Hitler's SS. (SO) 

Another Bulwer-Lytton protege was satanist Aleister Crowley, 
of the Thule" group's equivalent in England, the "Isis-Urania 
Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn." Both of these groups 
traced their lineage back to Paimerston's Scottish Rite Masons 

through Bulwer-Lytton. (U) 

Aleister Crowley was the tutor of Aldous Huxley, the prophet of 
mind control, who later introduced the LSD cult into the United 
Stales during the 1950s (see Part IV) . (12) 

Britain's imperial link to Nazi fascism is even more direct in 
the case of Bulwer-Lytton's other published work. His novel 
Rienzi, about the Knights of St. John, provided the text of 
Richard Wagner's first opera. His 1871 novel. Vrii: The Power of 
the Coming Race, contained virtually everything that Houston 
Stewart Chamberlain later had to say on racial theory; Prof. 




j 1. A victim of Britain's Opium War against the U.S. 

I 



f 




2. Rudyard Kipling 

3. The symbols of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry 
A, MJlton Friedman 

5. Adam Smith 

6. A 19th century Ch i nese opium smoker 




9 




7. William Jardine 

9. James Matheson 

9. An artist's depiclion ol the First Opium War 



* 10. A Chinese-American opium den {by artist Winslow Homer) as depicled in 
£ Harper's, 1874 




11, Giuseppe Mazzini 

12. Chinese "coolies" — opium smokers 
— at work on U.S. railroad 

13. Lehman Bros. (Lehman & Durr) office 
in Montgomery, Alabama shortly after 
the Civil War; the same building 

houses The Oddrellows secret 
society 

14, Lincoln's assassination by John 
Wilkes Booth, a British agent ^artist's 
depiction) 




X 







A. 





1 5. A mule-team convoy carrying opi um through northern Thailand (1967) 

1 6. Hillsides in northern Thailand devastated by the planting of opium poppies 



17. A drug-stand ir> the open market place. Vientiane. Laos (1967) 



■ ■■■ 





3 

... 

r 



i 



I 



■:■ 



IB 




18. Chin Sophonpanich. Chairman, with oiher directors oMhe Bank of Bangkok 



19. Chinese ex patriate gold-dealer (Woo Hong-fai}, Hong Kong, 1977 

20. Udorn Tejapaibul, Chairman. Bangkok Metropolitan Bank ~ 





■ 



21. The Crown Colony of Hong Kong, financial center of the drug trade 

22. Brian Slevin . Hong Kony Chief of Police 

23. M.G.R. Sandberg, Chairman, The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank 

24. The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank buildi ng 

25. Hongkongand Shanghai Bank emblem 

26. Current notes issued by the Hongkong and Shanghai and the Standard 
Chartered banks in Hong Kong; at bottom, an 1379 issue of the Anglo-Egyp- 
tian Bank < Barclays) 




A 




"1- 



1 



■ 

-■ 




27. Henry Keswick, $r. Managing Director. Jardine Matheson 

28. Sir Mark Turner. Chairman Rio Tinto Zinc, and Governing Council, the Royal 
Institute of International Affairs 

29. John Keswick. Director Matheson and Co. 

30. David NewDigging. Managing Director. Jardine Malheson 

31 . Bars of gold distributed by Mocatta Metals 

32. Harry Oppenheimer 

33. Diamonds sorted by quality . shape and color 




i 










36. "Bullion Pile" prepared for a visiting Queen Elizabeth II by Mocatta's parent 
bank (valued at £6,000.000) 



34. Henry Jarecki {c) with Edward Mocatta (r) and Keith S. Smith, Managing 

Director. Mocatta and Goldsmtd 
36. A morning gold-fixing, N.M. Rothschilds. London (second from right. Edward 

Mocatta) 






37. MaoTse-tung with U.S. General Hurley. 1949: double-cross 

38. Chinese Premier Chou En-lai „ 1 949 

39. Bertrand Lord Russell 

40; Walter Lockhart Gordon (r) with Peter C. Newman (c) and Abraham Rotsrein of 
Canada's "China Lobby" 

41. Lord Amory, 31st Governor, G.T, Richardson. 32nd Governor, and A J 
Macintosh, Deputy Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company in 1971 







<1> 




TD 




43 



42. Queen Elizabeth II with Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliot Trudeau, 1978 

43. Corporate emblems off the Canadian money-laundering banks: Bank off 
Montreal. Bank of Nova Scotia. Canadian Imperial Bank. Royal Canadian Bank, 
Toronto Dominion Bank 

44. Johnfiuskin 

45. Cecil Rhodes 





46. Robert Cecil, Lord Burghley, who delivered Tudor England to the Order of 

Malta's House of Stuart 
47 Stuart James V! of Scotland, James I of England (1603-1625). 

48. Grand Master of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, Villiers de nsle-Adam 
entering Malta in 1530 

49. The Seal of the Knights Templar 

50. A 14th century Knight ot St. John depicted kneeling before Rhodes, the 
orders home base before the Hapsburg gift of Malta 






51. Amschel Rothschild, 18th century German founder of the family's financial 

empire _ . . . , . 

52 Nathan Rothschild, founder of the family's British branch 
G3 Prince William IX of Hesse Cassel. first patron or Ihe RothschUds, whose 

Prussian field marshal's uniform is decorated by a Cross of Malta 



5- 






i 



I 






■=3 







■ 



I 



I 



54. Modem rftes of the Order of St. Joh n of Jerusalem 

55. Winston Churchill in Warden of Cinque Ports costume for trie 1953 coronation 
of Elizabeth II 




56- The current Cecil, Lord Harlech 

57. Joseph P. Kennedy during the whiskey-running years 

5B. John Fitzgerald Kennedy and Robert Francis Kennedy 






■ 







What the best drinks 
have in common. 



-.■cagnuus t uonso 




59. Edgar Bronfman 

60. The whiskey his father 
Samuel ran into the USA 
during Prohibition 






61 . Arnold Rolhsteiri 

62. Meyer Lansky 

63. Thomas E. Dewey, re-organizer of organized crime 
in the 1930s 

64. Al Capon© 

65. Charles "Lucky" Luciano 

66. Johnny Torrio 

67. Abner "Longie"Zwillman 

68. "Bugsy" Siege! 

69. John F. Kennedy, beginning the 1963 motorcade in 
Dallas that ended i n his assassination 

70. Major Louis BloomfieJd wearing the Cross of Malla 







A 



:= 




71 . The Beatles are introduced to America 

72. The British intelligence cult of Hare Krishna 




iCL! 

m 

'•Si 






*~»* »*-***- 






§s? 









WttW^I^^ffcSftR! 





73. Aldous Huxley 

74. Aleister Crowley, in robes of the Order of the Golden Dawn 

75. Ancient Fgyptian wall-painting, depicting the death rites ot the Cult of Isis 
(now in British Museum) 



1 



HOW TH£ DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



215 




76. The Drug Lobby: Senators Jacob Javits and Edward Kennedy 



Karl Haushofer, who shost-wrote most of Mein Kantpf in 
Hitler's prison cell 50 years later, named his first secret 
organization the "Vril Society." (13) Bulwer-Lytton's Nazi 
German and British secret societies met officially for the last 
time when Nazi minister Rudolf Hess attempted to make contact 
in 1941 by flying to Britain. 

Bulwer-Lytton directly influenced John Rusk in at Oxford 
University and established the lineage that leads — through such 
names as Milner and Rhodes — to the present-day Royal Institute 
of International Affairs. Raskin's students included Milner. 
Rhodes, Albert Grey, and the future director of research for the 
RIIA, Arnold Toynbee. 

Raskin's inaugural speech at Oxford in 1B70, inspired by 
Bulwer-Lytton, left such an impression on Cecil Rhodes that he 
carried a handwritten version of it with him until he died. The 
speech — which set the tone for Rhodes'.s 1877 will quoted in 
Section 7 — - stated in part: 

There is a destiny now possible to us — the highest ever set 
before a nation, to be accepted or refused- We are still 
undegenerate in race; a race mingled of the best northern 
blood. . . . We are rich in an inheritance of honour, which it 
should be our daily thirst to increase with splendid 
avarice. - . . (England) must found colonies as fast and as 
far as she is able . . . seizing every piece of fruitful ground 
she can set her foot on, and teaching these her colonists 

that their . . . first aim is to advance the power of England 

by land and sea. . . . (14) 



Bulwer-Lytton's son Edward Lytton was Viceroy and 
Governor-General in India 1676-80. Two aspects of the younger 
Lytton's rule in India are important to this report. First, Lytton 
supervised the single greatest expansion period in the history of 

opium production in British India. (15) As noted in Part 1, 
Palmerston had set forth this task as a means of compensating 
for Britain's industrial decline relative to the United States. It 
was fitting that the son of his former cabinet colleague and fellow 

cultist personally carried out Palmers ton's opium-expansion 

program. 




-: 



216 



DOPE, INC. 



Secondly, Edward Lytton's rule in India provided a home for 
the most important of the crackpot cultists inspired by his father. 
Lytton himself was the closest friend of Rudyard Kipling's 
parents, members of the circle around A. P. Sinnett's Allahabad 
journal The Pioneer. (16) The eider Bulwer-Lytton's follower 
Madame Biavatsky, of the Theosophy Cult, appeared in India in 
1879, and recruited A. P. Sinnettto her belief-structure. (17) Both 
Kipling and Biavatsky employed the swastika as their personal 
mystic symbol. From Kipling, Biavatsky. Haushofer, and others, 
the swastika found its way into the German cults that formed the 
core of later Nazism. 

Kipling's last major official post was under press czar Lord 
Beaverbrook at the wartime Propaganda Ministry; working 
side-by-side with him was a relative of the Lyttons' by marriage. 
Sir Charles Hambro. Harnbro went on to run Britain's dirty 
operations during World War II as chief of the Special Operations 
Executive from 1942 onwards. Kipling also served as a trustee of 
the Rhodes Trust from 1917-25. 

Kipling's cousin, Stanley Baldwin, was prime minister from 
1923-29 and 1935-37 ; during his second tenure, the Baldwin govern- 
ment groomed Hitler as a "marcher lord*' against the Soviet 
Union, setting the stage for Munich 1938. (18) 

Another well-known British literary figure, also with a 
mystical bent, deserves mention in this context: Alfred, Lord 
Tennyson. Tennyson married the niece of the 8th Lord of Elgin 
(James Bruce), and remained a close personal friend of the 
commander-in-chief of the Second Opium War. Tennyson was a 
founding member of the Metaphysical Society, with Bulwer- 
Lytton's protege John Ruskin, Lord John Russell's uncle Lord 
Arthur Russell, future prime minister Arthur Balfour, and 
Thomas Huxley. (19) In 1880, the Metaphysical Society was 
reorganized, and became the Aristotelian Society. Lord John 
Russell's grandson Bertram! Russell became the Aristotelian 
Society's President 1913-14 and 1935-37; one of his successors was 
Sir Karl Popper. The Aristotelian Society remains the Apollonian 
side of British intelligence's High Priesthood. 
* Tennyson's unambiguous endorsement of opium abuse was 
expressed in his well-known poem, "The Lotus Eaters" : 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 217 

Let us swear an oath , and keep it with an equal mind, 

In the hollow Lotus-land to live and lie reclined, 

On the hills like Gods together, careless of Mankind. (20) 



Today's opium dynasty 

The closing days of the Baldwin government and the opening 
days of World War 21 are an appropriate place to pick up the 
contemporary trail of the leading opium families — the Inch- 
capes and Keswicks. In 1939 the creation of Britain's Ministry for 
Economic Warfare offered a meeting place for the old families : 
Sir John Henry Keswick, later the architect of the Peking 
Connection; Sir Mark Turner, the current chairman of the old 
Matheson-Keswick firm Rio Tinto Zinc; Gerald Hyde Villiers. a 
leading scion of the evil old family; and John Kidston Swire, of 
the old Swire dope-trading family. 

Starting from the Matheson family's role in the first Opium 
War and tracing through to the World War II period and up to the 
present, the fortunes of the Matheson and Keswick line of the 
dynasty run the entire gamut of political developments sur- 
rounding the drug trade. 

The Rio Tinto Zinc Company was founded in 1873 by James 
Sutherland Matheson's nephew Hugh Matheson — - taking the 
lineage of that firm all the way back to the days of George III and 
the American Revolution through then-Prime Minister Spencer 
Perceval. The younger Matheson founded the firm with his 
uncle's opium profits and help from the Schroeder banking 
family — who in 1931 funded Bulwer-Lytton's ideological spawn 
Adolf Hitler. The Lyttons and Mathesons are relatives by 
marriage, through the Villiers family and the Sutherland family. 

Hugh Matheson's successor at Rio Tinto Zinc in 1898 was J. J. 
Keswick, a partner in the opium-running Jardine Matheson firm, 
and a relative of the Mathesons by marriage through the Fraser 
family. 

Apart from their leading role in Jardine Matheson, J. J. 
Keswick's family had a leading role in the British governance of 
the official opium trade. His cousin, William P. Keswick, was 



I 



?>■ 



218 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



219 



British Consul-General in Hong Kong during the same years that 
Edward Lytton, Governor-General in India, was expanding 
opium output according to the Palmerston program. 

William P. Keswick's son Henry Keswick, a past chairman of 
the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank at the height of its dope-trading 
glory, had three sons: David. JohnH., and William J. David 
Keswick is still among the largest shareholders and a partner of 
the London merchant hank Samuel Montagu. Sitting with him on 
the board of directors of Samuel Montagu is Rio Tinto Zinc's 
current chairman Sir Mark Turner. Turner* as noted, also 
worked with brother Sir John Henry Keswick in the Ministry of 
Economic Warfare. Later, John Henry went on to the British 
embassy in Chungking, picking up the opium trail where World 
War II had cut it off <see Section 7) , 

The third brother. Sir William Johnston Keswick, is the 
protagonist of Section 8 dealing with Canada; as previously 
documented, Keswick ruled the Shanghai Municipal Settlements 
at the height of Shanghai's heroin traffic, and set up the first big 
heroin connection, via intermediary Jacob "Yasha" Katzenberg 
(see Part ill Section 1). 

The family history of the Keswick s intersects the story of the 
Russelts, Villicrs, and Bruces through their most senior political 
operatives, notably Lord Milner. Milner. Cecil Rhodes's protege 
and one of racist John Ruskin's early trainees, bridged the gap 
between the establishment of the Rhodes Trust and the creation 
of the Royal Institute of International Affairs in 1920. Milner 
became a director of Rio Tinto Zinc in 1921, and served as 
chairman from 1922 until his death in 1925. 

More important t however, is Milner' s joint work with the 
Keswick family in setting forth the "geopolitical" policy that 
finds its most succinct expression today in Britain's proposed 
alliance with China against the Soviet Union. As documented 
above, that policy includes a free hand for British drug-running. 

This option first saw the light of day through the World War I 
collaboration of Lord Milner, William Boyce Thompson, and 
wartime British Commissioner in St. Petersburg, Frederick 
Lindley- During his wartime mission to Russia, according to the 
History of the London Times, a documentary source, Lord Milner 



worked closely with Frederick Lindley to install and then, 
unsuccessfully, to maintain in power, Alexander Kerensky. (21) 
This followed Britain's post-American-Civil War policy of 
fostering a weak and dependent Russia. . 

Frederick Lindley was the firandfather of Henry Neville 
Lindley Keswick, who currently occupies the traditional family 
seats at the head of Jardine Mathcson's directors and on the 
hoard of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. 

The third member of the Milner team, William Boyce Thomp- 
son, was the head of the Red Cross delegation in Russia; the Red 
Cross is, officially, the "charitable" side of the Order of St. John 
of Jerusalem. (22) After the war, Thompson, with funding 
from the Morgan bank, established the Anglo-American mining 
firm in South Africa — which now controls GO percent of world 
gold output outside the Soviet Union, and, through its controlling 
interest in De Beers, virtually all the diamond output (see Section 
4). That is the origin of London's top-down control over the 
precious metals and gems channels for laundering dirty money. 

To tie these strands back into the main line of the narcotics 
traffic: Milner's hand-picked successor at Rio Tinto Zinc, whose 
original mines were in Spain, was Sir Auckland Geddes. Geddes, 
who ruled until 1952, was a sponsor of Francisco Franco's fascist 
coup in Spain. (23) His nephew, Ford Irvine Geddes, was a 
director and then chairman from 1971-72 of the Inchcape family's 
huge shipping complex, the P&O Steamship Company, which has 
shipped more opium than any other entity in the world. 

One of P&O's officers, deputy chairman Sir Eric Drake, is a 
close associate of Sir William Johnston Keswick, also of the old 
Rio Tinto Zinc family (see Section S). Drake and W. J. Keswick 
jointly control Canada's Hudson's Bay Company, which 
established the rum-running routes from Canada into the United 
States during Prohibition, together with the Bronf mans. 

The old Inchcape family, whose current scion, the 3rd Earl of 
Inchcape, still is chairman of the P&O Lines, is closely related to 
the Matheson family of Jardine Matheson. The founder of 
Jardine Matheson, James Sutherland Matheson, was the son of 
Katherine Mackay and Donald Matheson; Mackay is the family 
name of the Earls of Inchcape. The 3rd Earl, J. W. Mackay, is the 



A 






220 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



221 



son of the 2nd Earl of Inchcape, who authored the infamous 1923 
Inchcape Report, insisting that the opium trade must be 
maintained to "protect the revenues" of the British Empire — 
despite the outcry of the League of Nations. 

Through the current Lord Inchcape, the old opium dynasty 
married into the highest level of British banking- The afore- 
mentioned J. W. Mackay of the P&O Lines married Aline Pease, 
his brother-in-law, Richard T. Pease, has been the vice-chairman 
of Barclays Bank since 1970. Barclays Bank, as noted above, is 
the controlling institution for the entire array of Israeli financial 
operations, through its control over the current Japhet family 
bank — Charterhouse Japhet. The current senior Japhet family 
member, Ernst Israel Japhet, is now the chairman of Israel's 
biggest commercial bank, Bank Lcumi. Barclays Bank controls 
outright Israel's second-largest commercial bank, the Israel 
Discount Bank, also known as Barclays discount bank. 

Taking together the Inchcapes, Keswicks, Peases and related 
families, control over London's banking establishment becomes 
a swirl of intermarriages, to the point that the top London banks 
and the scions of the drug trade appear as a single family entity, 
rather than competing or even parallel institutions. For example, 
the current deputy chairman of Inchcape and Co. — the family 
holding company that owns majority stock in the P&O Lines — is 
Sir Hugh Mackay-Tallack. Mackay-Tallack is also the deputy 
chairman of the Standard and Chartered Bank, the second- 
largest bank in the Far East after the HongShang. The 3rd Lord 
Inchcape himself, J. W. Mackay, is also a director of Standard 
and Chartered, along with cousin Sir Hugh. 

As the reader can judge from the chart, the Pease branch of the 
Family is further closely related to: 

* The Schroeder Bank, whose chairman, the 10th Earl of Airlie, 
is the brother-in-law of A. D. F. Lloyd, of the bank that bears his 
name. 

*Kuhn Loeb, whose leading partner was Otto Kahn; his grand- 
daughter is the wife of the 10th Earl of Airlie, the chairman of 
Schroeder Bank. 

* The family of Winston Churchill, whose mother-in-law is an 
Airlie; 



* The Lazard group, related to the Churchills by marriage; 
Lazard controls the London Financial Times, the Economist. 
Penguin books, as well as one of Britain's top merchant banks. It 
should be remembered that the Lytton family and the Keswick 
family are related to each other, via marriage through the 
Fraser family, whose current leading member is deputy 

chairman of Lazard. 

The British and American Hofjuden are represented at the 
borders of this complex. As noted, the 10th Earl of Airlie married 
the granddaughter of Otto Kahn, Capo of American Hofjuden; his 
sister, Margaret Ogilvie, married into a branch of the dynasty 
(see chart) that, In turn, married into the Rothschilds. 

The Rothschilds were the first of a number of leading families 
to come up the ladder through intermarriage with the Leading 
families — an award for special service to the British monarchy. 
Other prominent examples are the Kennedys and Bronfmans. 
After a display of Anglophilia during his tenure as America's 
Ambassador to the Court of St. James, Joseph Kennedy achieved 
his ultimate social-climbing ideal: his daughter Kathleen 
married the son of the 10th Duke of Devonshire. After their 
elevation to the status of leading Hofjuden during the 1930s, the 
Bronfmans intermarried with the French de Gunzberg family 
and the Belgian Lambert family (the Belgian branch of the Roth- 
schilds). However, Edgar Bronfman's attempt to wed Caroline 
Townshend, the direct descendant of the Lord Townshend who 
precipitated the American Revolution through a tea tax, came to 
naught. Shortly after their 1972 marriage, Edgar Bronfman sued 
for divorce, on the grounds that the English noblewoman had 
denied him connubial relations. Apparently, there are limits to 
what the British families will suffer from social-climbing 
Hofjuden. 

Few even among specialist readers will appreciate how many 
significant historical and intelligence problems of the last 
hundred years are clarified, in one degree or another, by this 
summary description of the Family. Only a small portion of the 
names listed on the chart, or their historical significance, has 
been presented in this section. Nonetheless, the point is 
irrevocably established for the general reader that the 



1 



I 



222 



DOPE, INC. 



- 



individuals named throughout this section are part of a single 
family operation, whose members take critical roles in 
furthering the opium trade, financing the opium trade, and 
directing the opium trade — wherever the opium trade is a 
matter of public record. This includes every crucial juncture of 
Dope, Incorporated: the period of opium production expandion in 
Jndia, the Opium Wars against China, the Shanghai Connection of 
1928, the Peking Connection of the World War li period and after, 
and the Opium War against the United States. 

The point is also indisputably established that this has been and 
is the policy of the British government and, through the Most 
Venerable Order of the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem, the 
British Monarchy itself. 



y- 



A 



The Dynasty of Robert Bruce 

THE DRUG 
FAMILY TREE 



List of Abbreviations 



A.D.C.aidedecamp '• 


L.G. St. John, Lord of Grace of 


Aff., affairs 


the Order of St. John 


Amb., ambassador 


Lt.. lieutenant 




Ltd., limited 


11. baron 




B.P., British Petroleum 


m., married 




Mem., member 


Can.. Canada 


M.E.W., Ministry of Economic 


Chan., chancellor 


Warfare 


Chm., chairman 


Min., minister 


Cons., consul 


Mvmt., movement 


d..died 


Neth., Netherlands 


Dau., daughter 




Dlr., director 


P.M., Prime Minister 


Dpty.. deputy 


Pari., parliamentary 




Pres.. president 


Env., envoy 


Ptnr., partner 


Exch., exchequer 




Extr., Min. Plen., extraordinary, 


R.I.I.A.. Royal Institute of 


Minister Plenipotentiary 


International Affairs 




RTZ, Rio Tinto Zinc 


Fin., financial, finances 


■V 




S.O.E., Special Operations 


G.C.M.G., Grand Cross of St. 


Executive 


Michael and St George 


Soc, society 


Geo., George 




Gen., general 


Tee., trustee 


Gov., governor 






U-, under- 


HK. Hong Kong 






V., vice 



Intel I., intelligence 

K .G. . Knight of tne Garter 
K .0. St. John, Knight of Grace of 
the Order of St. John 



denotes chart overlap 






■a 



I 

8L1 



■3. 



« t. 

11 

££ 

Cfl -~ 

[ 

I 

3-. 
H 

.2 

n 

8 

c 
X 

Oh 



-O 



SI 

g * 



1 



i 



< 


M 

c 

-_ ' 

B 
no 

c 


a 



IJ 

I 

E 
I 

Hi 



•a 

_ a 

— n 

pa c~i 
O m-* 

f* .g 



> m 



■-1 



c 
'3 





TJ 


1 x 


c 


F -• 


H 


5 


*-* 


as 

< 


W 


£ 


O 


Q 


:*i 


LJ 


tf 






I 



■si 



s^ 



c 
p 



C SJ 


c 


f| 


<8 

=1 




« 


L-« 


"sis 


c 


<=T7 


c 



:u4 



al_ 


3 

— UJ **i 


s* 


S3 


< Sft 


< 00 


S 


M, PJ 


& 


£ 



■^ 





p" — r 






3 






r~ 




y 






u 


o> 




ii 


'.: 




j-- 


\.l 




3J 


p 




TJ 




^* 






a 
1 


ri 

b 




5 


< 





u 

01 




u 

•1 
o 

p. 



T3 

C 

2J 00 



'3, 

S 5 



a 



W 



Ui 

as' 
< 

z 



B* 





c 


"St 




u 


1**' 


rs 


4m 


f ^h 


B(C£"» 


K S 


o«5£ 


u 


^is*;. 


r- 


SiSiSif^-S 






n ! 



» ■ 






12 

-J 



S 








1« 




a 


■ 


q 


^^ 


■ 


MTV 


(, 


1^" 


^ 


Ji 


-T> 


u 


"C 


a 


fj 




s 


w" 


"-n 


c 


O 


^ 


4> 


O 


^i 




5 




c 




t: 





ni 


, 




c 


■ 


S 


9 


•- c! 


!3 


c 


n O 


1^. 

■u 


II 

< * 


§ I 

Sell 


T3 




£§S| 










"V ■" ■ 


' <0 ^- 1"! (^ 




SS^SJb'^S 




r- l 


r- ■ 1 - 



m 

I* 



QO 







t. 




a « 




3l ° 




>« « > 




r a 






e-3,--* 1* 


-i - l- 




^•§2 5 




>0'JS 




O^^;- „, 




t5«* ^ 










^ i" i" ^ 














^■1 




U B 


rt 




'Si* 


«^> 




££ 


c ■ 




.*5 


"* >. 




^- 


^> v 




<"Q 


2S'E 




M 




>&. 


il 6 





t# 


"5 


y — 


c 







1- 


a 1- 


J J.' 


1— • i<j 




H* 


1] ' 


aX 




"D — 
til 




c 



B 

u 



s 
.■" 

■d 

b 
O 






*. 



J. 






fl 






m 
>. 



■n 



■a 






u 

i 






-J 
o 



. 3 



E 




2 



S 
fl 



.3 
u 



E 
« 



i 

e 

6. 

P 

= 

5 






s 



.a 

3 

C 

C 
< 



. 



lli" 



-3 
■■ *- 5 

'J — • 

ay— 
C 



1 


£§ 

fW 


t 


6-- 


' 


. k - 


I 


Ot 


■M 


i 


$2 


|H 




M 




s 


• 



ftjf 



■3 



VI 



•S o 

— a 

53 



■ ' 






u 

.A 

n 



- 



-5 



B- 






fl 
i- 

QJ 

■- ti 
n 



c 

in 
Q 

a: 



a. 5 p- 

.J.3 8 

81 

3 



Ml 



o 

"S 

o i a 
« 



J.J* 



5? 



,9-c 






:v: 



JL 



S 



c 


1 

sjj 
I- 

-■1 



J 






15. 



r 




V 


.5 


1 & 


s 


V I- 


<J 


?5 


c. 


— •© 


o 


— E 


<l 


i 

LL 






■"CI 




^< 



u 

il 

J* 






j a: 




s & 




™ ^ 




IO 




^^ 




3 S 




* s 




* *. 




rt "i 




: ct 




= ',". • 




|Ss-« 









tj 






-o 


B 






a 








a 








■B 


W 






d» 


— : 




X ^2 


vif 




♦— ♦- 


c a 


Pi 
^1 


if a 


,c lO 


t& 


._-S«i 



-^ 3 



s 

§ 

• = 



lb 

3 



a 



a, > 



Li 

c . 
c 



■ 



^ 



s 



•a 



« 



?- 


£ 


5 


£ 




^^m 


Xj 


la 


5 


« 


2 


s 


yi 


<s 


i> 


4> 


.2 


-* 


s 


9 


Q 


Q 


£ 


£ 


•* 




•o 


K 



0. 

■E 
3 



EC 

O 

O 
CO 

u 
< 







>- 

3 










1> 


2. 




E 


jJ 




£ 


3 » 




u 


5cj 




"E 


N 






n 


*E 




Q 

a 


a** 




J 


£. 





U 



8*, 

II 

St; 



— 

A i 

a -j 





H 




w 




< 




0> 




<*. 




©* 




*- ^ 


1) 


Offv 




fc-s'Si 


h 


c fl* 


V 


DC .2 


ft . , w 


i n SMS 


F-! " tut 

1-^ 



ra 
a 

2. 



i 

X 





-r- ,_ 


S"? 


d>ji 


*?3 




"^5 


oQt 






3 






'0 



£ 




T* 




^^ 




« 




•j 




e 




o 




■3 




^ 






c 


u 


c 


S 


6 

1 


j? 


*- 


L 


m 


>> 




S 5 ^ 


91 


^ 



13 

-J r. 

i m 



f« 



|5 



□ o 



E 



*.S 



^ 

', 



3 



$ 






a 

B 



.8 



03 

5 



-D 

c 
c: 

a 
I 

3 

Q 



4 


>• 


& 






^* 


o 


a 






s»> 


3 


UJ 






w 


0) 








Cj 




bZ 


3 




4 


s 


4> 


*- 
* 




3 


M 


J 


11 




it 


g s 5 . 

rt 


u c 




*»t^^ 




II. 


Q. 


a-* 


= o 





I'? 



w> 









e5 









p 

a 

o 

s 

> 



r 


* 


D 

1 


in*' 


3rs c 


in 
c 


|S8i 


a 


* • «- IB 





s 

F-l 






iuau. 



p 



w aCO 



3 






t9 



•It 
S9 





d 


•- 


e 


J5 


3 


'm 


T-l 





J 


1 M 




& 

c 




<; 


in 


^ 


□ 








tP 






& 




^g 




Li 


^_ 


S 


< 


* 
1 

5 


** 
-> 


S 




j 


C" 


- Ita 




j 


O 






CD 

•J, u;'v 

' a! Hi 

pi 



1 


-C 




1 


i 




H 


* 




■a 


^ 




r* 1- 


ra 




.2 


e 
3 




ct: 






ea 


£ 











■gS. 


2. 


— &s 


3J .. 


a . 


ft " 


t> /> 


"3 


X 


u 








S 




1 




3 




J 




& 




a 




s 




4 



61 



i 







> 



-J 
V 




o 



A 



t 



• 



s 



0/ 



33 
n 



3 

-a 







£ 


tfl 


11 


2 

■In 




J- T 


« 


E = 




6? 


o 


- j= 


*5. 


E.~ 


t'~ 


£ 


ofi 



!.£ 



<N 










> 



'•5 

. o 



E 



E 





~5 




« 




M 


;*1 




•o 




s 




fl 




01 


M 


* _ 


S» 


ai 


*! 


1 

o 





s 



1 


* 






= 
_2 


it* 






1 




LTI 




u 


> 




rt 


£ 


^S 




2 


'O 


to »■ 




TJ 


*ta 


?*S 






a sis 






< 


^Uo. 





Uh 



C 



* 







c 


^ — 


1 




i»% 


ti a 


5 ! 




M U 


OfJc 


. r 


il 


2-a 


^o-t ga 


Of 




^ 


COUQO 









•1 * 

m 

n 

a 

■6 

*0 





sii -s 


J! 


■* 
2 


u 


1 


-I- 


8 


So 




*a 


rt 


S 


m 


re 


T3 


*-- 


■—a 


■■> 


»■*• 


B 










M 













2 


, 


o 


£ 


o 


&e 


c 






3 



JS 



i*- "3—* 




•e 

u 






9 

M 



■S 3 ^ 






c 

& 

SI 

'71 



S 



."■- 



i 



4 



•5 






e 

e 

• ta 






-si 



U^ 






r s 



-o 

M 
*1 






t 10 






a 



*^ 



v: v'i Li. 



< 

t3 



Q> 




S ~* 




5 Tct, 




Uh 


pj 


ft r : — 




*— lC-2™ 


Q1 111 Wffl 


— o" 

to -X, 




«*»& 


3<iE 

Car. 


.a usii-cw'jifio 



B 






c 



5> 

> 



i v^ 



Q 






n 



2 



c 
9 £ 



W 



c 




,3 




CO $ 


« 




c 


'fi,w- 


et 


■Si* 




2* 

1 G! 


z 


<V — 


■ t _ 


Sw; 


a 


pj*— m in 


JCCr 


• s 


3 c??? 


- =£<* 


u :>3 


a. 



Hi 



B 1 V* 






"MS fi 



5 









ex 



< 

C 



u 

» 

IE 

o 

-J 



2 



PI 



■a 

1(1 ffl 



'J* 
•1 . . 






Ed 



7 

9 






•-O 



*» 9"" 









0> 

1 




E 






1 

—J 








i 






i 




c 


3j. 

lt> .J 




"- 






"l 


s:§c 




0.LL3C 





£ 




* 




Cm 

Pi 

J5 

a. 



U 



ii 



8 E 



as 



r 
v 
a. 



ST 



K 

4 






CO 



^— i 



£3 












4*2 



9 
Bi 

1 



"I 



1 


6 


•V 


3^ 


1 


fit 


>'■' — 


SjSS 


UO. 



*J 




M 


a 


b 


<^Q 


S s8 




n joi 


raw 




a I. _ 











1 






?3e 




*• 

E 






in 
u 

E 






* 

-a 






^ 
^ 






§!"».£« 






T.5J5.j=a 






oCiOOO 







t 






c 


1~ 


T> 




fl 


«B 


c 




Ifl U 


o 


6 




m 


6 

n 


u. 




i— i 


£ 


33 




5 & 

1* 


>> 


g.i 




8 


?L 




II 


U HO- 





j = 


!s - 




J5i 

D 


.■a 


£ 




c 


_3 




8J 




■ c 








.£0. 



-a 



E 

i 


1 






E 




-a 


o 




j 


si 

u 

c 




It 


^ 




K 


X 





3 

I 

w 



-gS 



I* 

Id 

B 







a 






c 






o 






K 




c 


c 
c 




1.1 


Q 

I 








£ 






s 


"c 




5 




v"^ 


g 


"5 
c 

3 




■n 

in 
-• 



L-l 



Jl 


c 


— « 


5(0 


o: o 


'h% 


If 


. £ 


El* 





1*1 




t> 


i 




« 












5 -i 


& 




-j 


ID C 




--I 


■|.§ 




U-sa 






c-c 




c — 


>&s 




w 









c 
a 


i 






ji 


X 
BI 








« 


f 


Cl 






* 


■n 


u 






1 


3 




o 
o 






c 


Q 


u> 




X 


3 


s^ 


*f b< 




^ 


£ 


R > 






"3 


B e ip 






— *-■ ID 




" 


* So: Eo-» E . 
' C«-*1"-iuj=*i: 






*3t> 


u 


sua 





5 




s 






S 


H 


s 


« 


t-l 


.. . 


<ll 


^= 


■ 


LJ 


£ 




2 


U 


i-i 


• ' 


e 



1^1 
C- 



a 

B 


1*. 


C 


fl>d 


(4 


E^ 


T 


i?p£ 




O ;-0 




1-^ 


■ 




1. 


cQU 



% 

3 






■-"■ 

WTO 




E 

B 



W5 





u 






c 






n 






o s 










s 


fSs 




u. 


— v> •- 




Li 

3! 






CTi^,^ 






Ifffll 






^ <j ■ 






— S ->* 






-•■{■- 






P ionl 







.i 


CN 






O 


cp 






^" 


^■ m 









j- 






mj 5 


f 




—i 


si 


h_ 




"3 


o 

Oj 




J 


<" : 


•6 








> 






S%U 






tflj. 


-3 








ri w 



Se- 
ed 



3 



b 




= 




5§ 




3.g 




O 4. 




_ ~ 




-. S J 


s 


S = 




•o 






>>- 




£ 












3 » 




*-H 


*n 




•a urj — 


■ UBi 


fDnJl 'V 3? 


^2^22 


"'efas 


o o c rsuj 


■/,-o.Sj.'-, 
5?S . ■ 


.0,0 S — 


gU.Kjl 


m v: •- 



II 

TO 



13 

Onv 

o 

fi « 
= o • 

Is! 
i-rfl 



8 



33 



tjW 



66- 

si- 

«.lp 
■ §5 



JL 



o 
o 





II 






3 

Era 

-I 

IX 

UJ 



! i 



If 



c 

u 

C 



r 



SIS 



i IJ 



>.^ 



£o>J 



Ms 

I? ST. 8 



i*i 






i 



> = 



s 



o 


te 


ll 


>u 




» 


iir 


<* 


c 


_ : 


"1 


S-! 


5C 


«: 






JZ* 



c 



o 



ft 



W 



£ 



1 — *~ 


■ a r 


c 


U 1 

c 

a 


. 


U- j 


C 


r | 


01 


« ■ 




^B 


.j 


a. : 


a 


r 


U 


S- T 


>.Slu«- 


c o J» t* 


2*«-o3;- 


•"!>■■ 


fc"- 


~ > 


* i 



■g 

I 






1^ 

~2 


"1 




i; o 


CO 




-5^ 


'" 




sx 


■ui 




u e 


c 




, ■ --' 


B 




"• c 


g 




1= E 


UJ 




l. B 






H" 




c 




K ™ 


<Q 




|^-< 


z m 




1 


— QIC 




=o 






1 



... 

I 



■ 



: 



O 



*■ 

35 



2 


5 


<*• 


*— 

£ 


Ci — 


— n 


0) 


UI 




Q 




■s 




c 




P-f 






I? 

5 S 9 

5* 



3 
n 
•a 



! 



c 






c 



o 



Z 

UJ 
UJ 



a 




3 




hJ 




•n 


a 


u 


z 


.5 


< 


£ 


-j 




u 




•»■" 








H 




D 




v> 





:- 



X 

u 

X 



ctf 






ct 


a 


a 


S s^S 


a a ».S 


= ;ii 


,2 


'^ *- 


~ 


a ! 


< 


c 





E 




"I 




CD 




V 




T3 _ 


-- 


^^ r 


'5 


£ a 


TO 




7 


2 3 


» 


J& 


I 


IP" 


_j 


*" ."9 




-dE 





r 




u 


i 




■^ 


e 




J 


5 




&> 


& 


a 


N 


a 
& 


c 






<_» 



V 



c 
a 
o 

« 

B 



o 









^_ 




"CI 








E 




j: 


F 


i- 


ft 


jS 


'n 


- 


5 


> 




« 




,e 








< 





2 3 




- o 




S I 




i_ 


• 


o H 


Q_ 


ie a 


< 


a a- 


ai 


! S: 


5 






.cKc 




fiOOO 



■ 



'1 



'J 

*1 



li 









o 

1= 



5 
£ 



£ 




sE 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



241 



■■ 

<• 



Notes 



, as 



it- 

■a <»": 



K 
o 
w 

S 
e 

p- 

c 
3 

Q 



i 



2 
I 

8 



«4 






sis 






If 


i 

1 i 


£* 


2S 

if 

• 


£3 ". 

mi 






rv e 



-o 
| 
O 

S 

<3 



a 
> 







3 
-a 
•o 

u 

• a 

eg 







r- t-i 
a> 3 




S 
1 

00 


VI 
V 

*> 


Is 




c 


1 IM B 


inO 




a 

g °3 


■ I 


O > 




»* h_ <j) 




IP* 




A£__ 




u 









5 8 


a: 

c 


£ 


Si 1 ? 1 


c 
5 

2 




c2 


us 






P 
I 


o.S ,■ 




~E« 


< 


SO 


fib o 



■ 



■: 
i 









1. BANKING AND THE WORLD'S BIGGEST BUSINESS 

1. Based on interviews with Drug Enforcement Administration sources. 
The typical deviation from the price trend resulted from the importation 
of several kilograms of hi^h-grade number four (85 to 95 percent pure) 
heroin from Vietnam by individual returning soldiers, who would attempt 
to start their own distribution chain. Such incidents stood out because the 
novice distributor tended to dilute the heroin too little — often distributing 
heroin at 30 percent purity and above, rather than 5 percent purity, the 
normal dilution. The free-lance pusher would therefore occasion an 
extraordinarily large number of drug overdoses, enabling the authorities 
to spot him quickly. 

2. The 'j'UO ton figure is also used by the most widely circulated sources on 

the subject, e.g.. Alfred McCoy et al.. The Politics of Heroin in Southeast 

Asia. (New York: Harper and Row, 1974). 

1 The New York Times, January 20, 1971. p. 1. 

4. According to Drug Enforcement Administration estimates. 

5. The $40 billion figure is almost certainly an exaggeration: it does not 
count attrition of the marijuana crop because of Colombian or U.S. 
government counteraction. Since Colombia is the primary supplier of the 
American market, the likely figure is half that. 

6. Eatornoney (London). April, I97S. 



2. FROM OPIUM TO DIRTY MONEY 

1. The $100 per pound initial price is slightly higher than most estimates 
cited in studies which date back to 1971 or earlier. Since the opium price is 
principally measured in terms of gold, it is fair to assume a substantial 
increase since 1971 when gold went for 542 an ounce. The 5100 figure is 
conservative, assuming that the raw opium price has doubled in 
reflection of local inflation. But if the opium price has risen in tandem 
with the gold price, the figure is much higher. 

2. Calculated on the basis of price markups as reported by law enforce- 
ment sources in interviews with the authors. 

t 

3. The estimate was derived from the following calculations: At the 1971- 
72 peak of heroin production in the Golden Triangle, much of which was 
intended for American soldiers in Vietnam, 21 refineries were in opera- 
tion: since then the number has declined. Assuming that ten are still in 
operation, and that the annual output of each is equivalent to the 3.0HD 



':■ 



A 



242 



DOPE. [NC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



243 



kilograms of heroin seized in one major bust on record, then they produce 
roughly 30,000 kilograms a year of heroin, derived from about 300 tons of 
raw opium. 
4. Richard Deacon, The Chinese Secret Service (New York; Ballantinc 

Books, 1976). p. 447. 



9. International Currency Review, Vol. 10, No. A, p. 145. 

10. M. A. Andreyev. Overseas Chinese Bourgeoisie — A Peking Toot in 
Southeast Asia (Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1974), p. 30. 

11. V. Thompson, R. Adtoff. Minority Problems in Southeast Asia 
(Stanford: Stanford University Press. 1955). p. 13. 



3. HOWTHE DRUG TRADE IS FINANCED 

1. London Financial Times, April 24, 1978. 

2. Ibid. 

3. A close examination of the price markup structure of the Golden 
Triangle's primary wholesalers demonstrates that the increased prices 
at various stages merely account for substantial additional expenses, 
including the livelihoods of an inestimable number of Thai and Burmese 
policemen and customs officials. The real profitability — the enormous 
profits associated with the traffic — depends on the process of cutting the 
pure heroin into "decks" of street quality for sale in the West. The profits 
of the Hong Kong syndicates who wholesale heroin are not accrued 
through the difference between primary and secondary wholesale prices, 
but as a percentage of the profits obtained through distribution of the 
drugs in the West. In other words, the Hong Kong networks are directly 
represented in the Western "organized crime" segment of Dope, Inc. and 
take their cut in the form of a reflow of the retailing profits. Scattered bits 
of evidence — the most prominent of which is the activities of the 
expatriate Chinese community in Vancouver — indicate Uiat this is, in 
fact, how these syndicates operate. 

4. The authors obtained briefings concerning — but were not able to see 
— classified dossiers on Tejapaibul and Sophonpantch in the possession of 
the American. Malaysian, and Thai governments. As noted below in the 
text, they are "cut-outs" for the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation. Tejapaibul, whose bank handles most of Thailand's 
chemical imports, developed the Golden Triangle's major source of 
acetic anhydride, the chemical required to refine opium into heroin, 
through a Hong Kong subsidiary of the Bangkok Metropolitan Bank. 

5. Certain aspects of the expatriate Chinese activity antedate the British. 
The relationship between Ch'ao Chou Chinese merchants and the Thai 
royal family, fur example, dates back several centuries. The predom- 
inance of Chinese compradors in the region, however, dates to the turn of 
this century. 

6. W. J . Cator, The Economic Position of the Chinese in the Netherlands 

Indies, p. 97-98. 

7. Victor PurccH. The Chinese in Itfal&ya, p. 189. 

8. William Skinner, Chinese Society in Thailand' An Analytical History, 
p. 140. 



\ 



4. BRITAIN'S GOLD AND DIRTY DIAMOND OPERATIONS 

1. Andreyev, Overseas Chinese Bourgeoisie, p. 120. In contrast to many 
Soviet publications on the subject, the Andreyev book is a scholarly 
monograph through nine-tenths of its extent, using quotations from 
Western sources for most of its material. The propaganda factor is 
comparatively small. Apart from the fact that it is a good survey of 
Western literature on the subject, there is a special feature of this short 
work thiil indicates its value to the investigator. The work is a classical 
example of careful Soviet "surfacing" of their on-the-ground intelligence 
reports, in such form as to make the conclusions politically useful. 

. without compromising their operations. The clear intent of publication of 
the work is to put some heat on Chinese intelligence operations in the Far 
Eastern theater. The occasional "zingers" Andreyev includes, such as 
the report of Chinese import of gold through the Golden Triangle, are 
intended for a small professional audience in other intelligence services. 
To the extent the authors were able to cross-check Andreyev's facts with 
Western sources, they have checked out. Therefore the authors believe 
that the Andreyev work is an acceptable reference source. 

2. Timothy Green, "Other World Markets," speech at the Cold Confer- 
ence of the London Financial Times and In vestors Chronicle, Tl?e London 

Hilton, October 24, 1972, 

3. Paul Ferris. TheCity (London. 1951). 

4. H. R.Reinhart. The Reporter, July 22, 1952. 

5. Andreyev, The Chinese Bourgeoisie, p. 120. 

6. Reinhart, The Reporter- 

7. This information is a byproduct of a U.S. Labor Party counterintelli- 
gence investigation of the operations of the Israeli intelligence agency, 
Mossad, for which Jarecki appears to be a "bagman." The details were 
cross-checked with law enforcement officials. 

fi. According to interviews with leading diamond traders in New York. 



5. HONG KONG: THE WORLD'S DRUG CAPITAL 

Virtually all published sources identify Hong Kong as the world's 
center for transshipment of opiates from the Far East, and even as the 
center for heroin refining. For the most part, these admissions — 




■-.-■ 

■ * 



244 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



245 



encouraged hy the local British authorities — are in error. In fact, heroin 
is refined in the triborder area of the Golden Triangle itself. Once in the 
compact form of heroin, the drug may be shipped by air, Through indi- 
vidual couriers using a multiplicity of different routes. It need not pass 
through Hong Kong at all. although Hong Kong is possibly the most 
important of these various routes, and may conduct significant refining 
operations. The British admissions concerning refining and transship- 
ment of opium and heroin tend to distract the investigator from the more 
important issue: that Hong Kong is the financial center for the Far East 
drug trade, and hence the point of control for the Golden Triangle. 

The most recent American congressional investigation into Hong Kong. 
in 1973, wrote: 

The British Crown Colony plays a major role in the trafficking 
and refining of narcotics which originate in the "Golden Triangle" : 

1) It serves as a major target for the production area ; 

2) The criminal syndicates behind the Southeast Asian drug 
traffic are based in Hong Kong ; 

3) It serves as the refining center for "Golden Triangle" opium 
and morphine base: and 

4) It is a major transshipment point for heroin coming into the 
U.S. and for transshipment to our 7th Army in Germany via The 
Netherlands. 

... It is estimated (hat 4$ tons of opium are smoked in Hong Kong 

annually and 4 tons of heroin are consumed. Local officials also 

estimate that 4 to 10 tons of heroin is transshipped from Hong Kong 

(primarily by body pack) to the United States annually, but 

accurate information is lacking. Ten thousand dollars worth of 

heroin in Hong Kong would retail for $50 to $60 million in the United 

States. — 
From reports we received in The Netherlands.it is also apparent 

that heroin is being transported hy air and ship to The Netherlands 

from Hong Kong to supply the 7th Army in Germany. The potential 

for growth of these shipments is unlimited. . . . 

Despite the recent steps to upgrade the enforcement effort. Hong 
Kong will continue to act as a funnel for heroin destined for the 
United States unless some fundamental changes take place. 

Smuggling into Hong Kong is almost impossible to control 
because: 1) it is a free port and the economy of the Crown Colony is 
dependent upon its being easily accessible: 2) many drops are 
made outside of the jurisdictional waters of the Crown Colony; 3) 
personnel are not adequate; and 4) intelligence is lacking. 

Since Hong Kong is a free port, there are no regularized customs 
inspections. Also, most goods coming into Hong Kong are in sealed 
containers. The Preventive Force, as a result, must rely primarily 
on tips to conduct searches. The searches, however, are only of 



vessels entering the harbor; not those leaving which could be trans- 
mitting narcotics to the United States, The Netherlands, or other 
points. 

A major obstacle, also, is the lack of cooperation from the 
People's Republic of China. Many of the drops are made in Chinese 
waters because the Chinese do not police their coasts for narcotics. 
We were told that a Chinese vessel will ignore a trawler smuggling 
narcotics. Moreover, since the British in Hong Kong are naturally 
sensitive to their relations with the People's Republic, they care- 
fully observe territorial waters and are careful lo avoid appear- 
ances that a crackdown on traffickers is a vendetta against the 
Chinese. . . . 

The British in Hong Kong arc also reluctant to recognize the 
severity of the problem evidenced by the increasing availability of 
narcotics, and to, correspondingly, take action. For instance, most 
officials we spoke with were "uptight" about the recent report of 
the House Foreign Affairs Committee which concluded that the 
Hong Kong Government has been lax. They also resented the fact 
that no one had talked to them before filing the report. (Report by 
Hon. Lou Frey, Jr., Hon. Peter N. Kyros, and Hon. James F. 
Hastings, Members of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign 
Commerce. Concerning Narcotic Enforcement Efforts in Hong 
Kong, Thailand, Burma, India, Lebanon, Greece, Turkey, France, 
and The Netherlands; April 1973, pp. 2-11 passim). 

Like most such documents, this report is loaded with inconsistencies, 
although it contains occasional useful pieces of information. One such 
item concerns the Hong'Kong police force's most successful means of 
discovering illicit heroin, noting that police "found drugs concealed in the 
rectums of 40 defendants referred to them by the courts in one week." 

Also useful is the report that Hong Kong consumes 4 tons of heroin and 
48 tons -of opium {medically equivalent to 4.S tons of heroin annually), 
from Hong Kong authorities. Taking this at the equivalent of 8.8 tons of 
heroin consumption, the figure corroborates the charge in this section 
that Hong Kong harbors one million drug addicts in a 5 million popula- 
tion. At standard 5 percent purity for street use. 1 kilogram of heroin will 
yield 150,000 "decks." or single doses; 8.8 U.S. tans will yield roughly 1.2 
million doses. A serious addict requires more than one dose per day, so it 
is hard to estimate the precise number of addicts; but it is clear that the 
British figures, probably conservative, arc in the required range. 

The report that the PRC does not Interfere with opiates transshipment 
in its territorial waters speaks for itself, as does the statement that Hong 
Kong serves as a base for the criminal syndicates behind the Southeast 
Asian drug trade. However, the failure of the Congressional investigators 
to cite police corruption at any point as an obstacle to narcotics enforce- 
ment in Hong Kong demonstrates how inadequate the effort was. 



1 



246 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



There is nothing in the published literature conc,erninB the financial 
relationships between the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank and the Chinese 
syndicates; information had to be obtained from interviews with 
knowledgeable area sources, and compared to studies of financial 
market mechanisms. 

1. Andreyev, The Chinese Bourgeoisie, pp. 146-147: 

2. Ibid. 

3. Financial Times, J uly 4, 1 977 , p. 24. 

4. Ibid. 

5. Ibid., p. 19. 

6. Ibid. 



6. THE PEKING CONNECTION 

Following Kissinger's 1972 trip to Peking, American public and private 
literature both have played down the "Peking Connection." to the point of 
ridiculing existing and current evidence of People's Republic of China 
involvement in the trade. However, an examination of these sources does 
not reveal a single pieceof evidence that the PRC role has stopped. 

The current "standard reference work" on the Far East traffic is The 
Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia, by Alfred W. McCoy, with Cathleen 
B. Read and Leonard P. Adams II (New York: Harper and Sow, 1972). In 
dismissing the claims of former Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous 
Drugs chief Harry Anslinger, McCoy quotes an unnamed BNDD agent 
who dismisses Anslinger's accusations against Peking, saying that the 
People's Republic of China has no role whatsoever in the opium trade, 
and that Anslinger's accusations are substantiated by nothing more than 
Taiwanese propaganda. McCoy cites no other evidence, and merely 

brushes the issue aside. 

In fact, McCoy and bis co-authors went so far out on a limb that even 
sympathetic experts were forced to correct them. In a review published 
in the Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars in September 1973, Peter Dale 

Scott wrote: 

"McCoy quotes U.S. narcotics officials today to ridicule the 1950s 
claims by then-U.S. Narcotics Commissioner Anslinger (and his govern- 
ment) ahout Communist China's 'twenty-year plan to finance political 
activities and spread addiction' in the United States. But McCoy 
subscribes to the equally dubious 'Turkey hypothesis' which replaced 
Anslinger's in the 1960s: namely, that all of the U.S. plague of heroin 
produced in the laboratories of Marseilles could be attributed to opium 
grown in the Middle East. McCoy even claims that 

Throughout the 1960s ... the U.S. Bureau of Narcotics paid almost 
no attention to Asia, there were few seizures of Asian heroin and 



.-f 



* 
K 



t 



5 



■i , 









little awareness of the colony's growing rote in the international 
traffic. It was not until American Gls serving in Vietnam began 
using , . . heroin refined in the Golden Triangle region that any 
attention was focused on the Asian heroin trade, (pp. 223-24) 

"That Is an important claim," reviewer Scott continued, "and it is quite 
false. In i960, as he knows, the United States officially listed Hong Kong 
as the first of the 'principal sources' of the diacetylmorphine (heroin) 
seized in the United States; and the Federal Bureau of Narcotics showed 
its concern by opening a branch office in Hong Kong in 1963. Anslinger 
himself, while transmitting KMT (Kuomintang. or Taiwanese — ed.) 
propaganda about a Red Chinese opium conspiracy, proved himself io be 
well-informed about the world-wide significance of the Northern Thai- 
land traffice. even to such details as the roles played by a Macao financial 
syndicate, and a Bangkok official of the Soong Bank of Canton." Peter 
Dale Scott's references are to Harry J, Anslinger, "The Opium of the 
People's Government," in U.S. Congress, House. Soviet Total War, $5th 
Congress, House Document No. 227. pp. 759-61. 

The accuracy or inaccuracy of Harry Anslinger's presentation is not 
what is in question at the moment. Rather, it is a simple point of fact that 
McCoy and his co-authors have no facts whatever to indicate that the 
PRC is not involved in the drugs traffic: and furthermore, that their 
treatment of U.S. authorities who presented facts implicating the PRC is 
wildly inaccurate. As the Scott review demonstrated, that is a matter of 
the published record. "• 

Experts on the Southeast Asian theater at the time McCoy wrote simply 
doubt the authors integrity. McCoy had available to him a mass of docu- 
mentary evidence showing that roughly half of the Golden Triangle 
growing area lay within the confines of Communist China's Yunnan 
province. He also had available a substantial portion of corroborating 
facts contained in this report. McCoy simply chose to ignore this., 
evidence, or, more accurately, to attempt to refute it with unsubstan-" 
tiated assertions. According to individuals who knew McCoy when he was 
a regular in the anti-Vietnam War movement, McCoy was in close 
friendly contact with North Vietnamese legations in Western Europe at 
the time of writing of The Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia, and 
intended his efforts to undermine the American war effort. In that 
context he deliberately excised references to PRC opium trafficking. 
Since the PRC and North Vietnam have come to blows over the status of 
the expatriate Chinese comprador community in the latter country, it 
may be that McCoy's political iudgment, rather than North Vietnamese 
views, were faulty on this subject. McCoy's book cannot be taken 
seriously as far as the PRC issue is concerned- 

McCoy, incidentally, does mention that expatriate Chinese syndicates 
arc the main traffickers in the Far East, and that Hong Kong is the main 
transship men t c enter . 




24$ 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



249 



Typical of public sources is a Congressional invest i Ration Df 1973 which 

reported : 

'There is no indication that the People's Republic of China is a source 
of illegal narcotics coming to or through Hong Kong. A former American 
missionary in China, now with SARDA (Society for Aid and Rehabil- 
itation of Drug Addicts — ed.), said that since 1965 not one addict from 
China has appeared in Hong Kong. Prior to 1965 they arrived in droves. 
Arrests and seizures also evidence no Red Chinese involvement what- 
soever in narcotics traffic in Hong Kong. 

"It was interesting to note the reaction of the Government officials 
regarding the 'Chinese connection.' They thought that such statements 
were 'rubbish and either made out of ignorance or by individuals seeking 
political gain.' To say they were emphatic would be an understatement. 

"When the Communists came into power in 1949 in China, they Imposed 
the death penalty on anyone producing or consuming opiates. V sers were 
sentenced to long terms, which included building a road toward Siberia. 
This was, in effect, a death penalty. Their success and continuing interest 
in purging addiction from their society has removed China as a major 

source of narcotics. " 

The report says further, *'AI» officials acknowledged the fact that most 
of the opium or morphine base coming into Hong Kong comes from either 
Bangkok or the Gulf of Siam." {Report by Hon. Lou Frey, Jr.. Hon. Peter 
N. Kyros. and Hon. James F. Hastings, members of the Committee on 
Interstate and Foreign Commerce, Concerning Narcotic Enforcement 
Efforts in Hong Kong, Thailand, Burma. India. Lebanon. Greece. 
Turkey. France, and The Netherlands; April 1973, p. A) 
These claims are worth examining one by one. 

First, the Report does not seek to determine whether opium coming 
into Hong Kong from Bangkok is, in fact, of Red Chinese origin- 
According to our expert sources, the main PRC transshipment route is 
southwards, through the Golden Triangle, to Bangkok. 

Second, whether or not the "former missionary" source cited is 
accurate, the appearance or nonappearance of drug addicts from the 
PRC mainland is utterly irrelevant to the issue of PRC involvement in the 
wholesale drug traffic. Moreover, the citation of 1965 as the end-poinl of 
PRC traffic is suspicious, since the hardest evidence of all — Chou En- 
lai's recorded boasts on the subject — dates from that year. 

Third, the authority cited by the Congressional delegation is the Hong 
Kong Government itself. The integrity of the Hong Kong authorities may 
bo judged from material presented in Section 5 of this report. The utter 
ingenuousness of the Congressional document cited, however, may be 
gauged from its enthusiasm tor the Hong Kong police: "We were 
impressed by the desire of the Service to do a job. Their frustration was 
also apparent- They'll give it 100 percent, but no matter how much they 
try — or how good a job they do — it's just too big for them" (p. 10). 



* 



-- 
^ 



* 



Two years after the publication of this document, the Independent Com- 
mission Against Corruption in Hong Kong made its official estimate of a 
$i billion annual rate of police bribery in the colony. 

The most complete 'British work on the subject. Richard Deacon's The 
Chinese Secret Service (New York: Ballantine Books, 1976) merely 
ignores the issue, and defends PRC motivations! He argues, "If opium 
could be introduced into a country that did not wish it in peacetime by a 
so-called civilized Western Power, with the connivance of its Govern- 
ment, how can the British adopt an outraged critical tone towards China 
for copying her own tactics, not by having opium forcibly imported this 
time, but by exporting the stuff to try to check such a war as that in 
Vietnam, which threatened to go on indefinitely. . . . Can one blame 
China, however intrinsically disgusting the tactic may be, for manipu- 
lating an 'opium war in reverse'?" (p. 441). 

Deacon does admit, "Many nations and many individuals are in the 
drug game solely for sordid commercial gain, It is essentially an inter- 
national problem, but that should not blind one to the fact that only in the 
hands of the Chinese Communists has it been used almost solely as a sub- 
versive weapon and for financing, by an opium war in reverse, a great 
many of their espionage operations." 

After 1972, American officiate accepted the official line that China had 
ceased to be an exporter of opiates, although they never liked It. A case in 
point was Gen. Lewis W. Walt, a retired Marine Corps officer who 
became Ihe chief investigator for a set of hearings on "World Drug 
Traffic and Its Impact on U.S. Security" (see note 27 below). On 
September 14. 1972. Walt states, "The official U.S. position today is that 
we have no evidence that opium or opiates are coming out of Communist 
China." However, a specialist familiar with the intelligence reports that 
made up the raw material of Gen. Walt's briefing to the Subcommittee. 
said. "It is highly significant that he used the word evidence, rather than 
information. That is an intentional dodge. He is playing a word game: 
evidence is a legal term, and may exclude information. Had he used the 
word information, he would have had to explain away a couple of hundred 
reports coming in at the time." 

Walt continued, "There can be no question that large quantities of 
opium were coming out of China in the 1950s and early 1960s. . . . The 
Director of British customs at Hong Kong also told us that they had no 
evidence that opiates were, coming out of China.. On the other hand, he 
informed us frankly that they were not looking for evidence — that, for 
political reasons, they do not search ships or cargo coming out of 
mainland China. An identical situation prevails in Portuguese Macao. " 

K Heikal, Mohammed Kassanein, The Cairo Documents, (Garden City, 

N.Y.: Doubleday and Company , 1973), pp. 306-307 

2. The significance of the investment, which occasioned widespread com- 



250 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



251 



mentary in the Western press, is not so much the novelty of tbe joint- 
venture format, but the surfacing of longstanding business relationships 
between Jardine's and the PRC. 
3. London Financial Times, July 4, 1977, p. 20. 

i. Interviews with law enforcement officers. Law enforcement author- 
ities suspect, but have never proven, that the Shaw Brothers' inter- 
national film distribution network also conduits narcotics. 

5. Deacon. Chinese Secret Service, pp. 437-436. 

6. In 1849, according to recently released American diplomatic cables, 
the newly formed PRC was happy to permit Britain to retain control over 
Hong Kong for the same reason. 

7. Management Magazine (South Africa). December 1975. The Rennie 
and Matheson families' relations go back much further than the re- 
cent merger of business operations. They are intermarried through the 
Ogilvie family, which is itself intermarried with the current British royal 
family. The Rcnnies are core members of the British establishment in 
South Africa. For example, relative Julian Ogilvie Thompson is a 
member of Anglo-American Corporation's three-man operating com- 
mittee (see Section 4 for details on Anglo-American's role in dirty money 
operations) . The Rennies show up prominently in British diplomatic and 
military posts throughout Africa and Asia, e.g., Sir John Shaw Rennie 
was Governor and Commander in Chief of Mauritius (1962 -68), and Sir 
Gilbert McCall Rennie was Governor and Commander in Chief of 
Northern Rhodesia in 1 952. 

8. The Economist, September 2. 1978. 

9. The authors benefited from an unpublished letter, "Jardine's Octopus 
in Southern Africa; Rennie's Consolidated Holdings," by David Cherry of 
the Africa staff of Executive Intelligence Review. 

10. Peking's influence on the international gold market has been the 
subject of considerable commentary in the financial press; during 1977, 
the Bank of China suddenly released about SO tons of gold onto the inter 
national markets, a move which commentators believed depressed the 
gold price. What commentators were then at a loss to explain is how the 
PRC, which runs a chronic balance-of-trade deficit, was able to obtain the 
gold in advance of selling it off. Peking's role in the gold-related aspects 
of opium financing provide some explanation. 

11. Internationa! Currency Review, Vol. 1(1, No. 4, p. 146. 

12. Harry J. Anslinger, The Murderers <New York: Farrar, Straus, and 

Cudahy.1361). 

13- "World Drug Traffic and Its Impact on U.S. Security," Hearings 
before the Subcommittee to Investigate the Administration of the 
Internal Security Act and Other Internal Security Laws of the Committee 
on the Judiciary. United States Senate; 92nd Congress, Second Session; 
Part3, The International Connection; September 13, 15, 1972, p. 101. 
14. Haika.\. Cairo Documents. 



:■ 






15. Anslinger, Murderers, 

16. Harold Chang, "U.S. Sanction Threat to HK Over Drugs," South 
China Morning Post, August 18, 1977. 

17. Jsvestia, February 17, 1978 (article by.Bandura based on an article in 
the Japanese weekly, Shukan Bunshun, by N. Otiai) 

18. According to interviews with Far Eastern and Soviet specialists, the 
figure Liternatura cited was "laundered" through a series of different 
Soviet conduits and publications during the 1960s, in a form typical of Sov- 
iet "surfacing" of hard intelligence for more general consumption. This 
particular report is taken much more seriously by Western specialists, 
than, for example. Soviet claims that the PRC at one point had 35,000 tons 

per year annual opium production — enough dope to keep the entire U.S. 
population addicted. 

19. Reported in the Indonesian Journal Buana Minggu, December 12, 
1972. Many similar reports came through during the same period, 
including the following item from Indonesia as reported In the December 
29, 1970 issue of Foreign Broadcast Information Service Daily Report: 

Djakarta — The weekly CHAS has signaled the possibility that 
Adjitorop, former Brigadier General Suhario, and other elements 
of remnants of the G-30-S/PKI who lived in communist China, the 
Soviet Union, or other communist countries, continue to operate in 
Indonesia- According to CHAS. they often come to Singapore using 
foreign passports and fake names and disguised, because of 
Singapore's proximity to Indonesia. 

In view of the great risk of capture by Indonesia state agencies, 
these elements use Singapore for their subversion against Indo- 
nesia. The attempts to crush the Indonesian republic by remnants 
of the G-30-S/PKI also depend on assistance from and subversion 
by the above states. 

This was the observation of a correspondent of the weekly CHAS 
who recently visited Singapore, North Sumatra. Riau. and West 
Kalimantan. 

According to CHAS, Indonesia is one of the targets for subversion 
by communist China in fighting the Soviet Union and its allies, and 
in the struggle between the communists and the West. 

To attain their purpose, all sides employ all kinds of methods to 
mobilize local forces, which in the current new order appose and 
undermine the Indonesian republican government overtly and 
covertly. Among these forces are remnants of the G-30-S PKI and 
groups which are defending the political principles of the old order. 

In launching its subversion, communist China conspicuously 
combines trade activities with the dissemination of communist 
Ideology and instigation to rebel against the Indonesian 
government. CHAS concluded- 



252 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



20. U.S. intelligence agencies had the name problem with Che Ch'ao Chou 
element in the Chinese Communist Intelligence Service that Japanese 
interpreters had with American radio dispatches during World War II; 
American military forces employed Sioux and other Indians for certain 
classified radio transmissions, for which the Japanese had no 
interpreters. The entire American government had, during the early 
1970s, only two employees capable of translating the Ch'ao Chou dialect. 
How extensive this network is, therefore, remains a matter of mystery. 
One disturbing feature of the New York City incident is that the Ch'ao 
Chou contact had with him the business card of the local Ch'ao Chou 
fraternal association in New York's Chinatown (See Note 3. Section 3) . 

Virtually the only published source indicating the Ch'ao Chou operation 
is John Le Carre's The Honourable Schoolboy (New Yorfc: Alfred A. 
Knopf, 1977). Its leading character is Drake Ko, supposedly a Hong Kong 
kingpin of narcotics traffic with an Order of Ihe British Empire and a 
brother in the Chinese Politburo. "They'd come up from Swatow. the two 
of them," a Le Carre character remarks of Ko and his brother. "They 
were boat people. Chiu Chow." Le Carre's novel, according to highly 
informed sources, is a straight rornan a clef from the files of British 
intelligence; most of the individual characters are scarcely disguised 
real figures in the Far East drug traffic and mercenary scene. The book's 
apparent intent, to portray fictionally the replacement of British intell- 
igence-power in the Far East by the CIA's, is patent nonsense. The 
interesting question is how Le Carre became so well-informed; his 
acknowledgements are to British intelligence and police sources. 

21. Daniel Insor. Thailand: A Political, Social, and Economic Analysis, 
(London: 1965), p. 135. 

22. A. Doak BarneU, Communist China and Asia <New York: 1960), p. IBS. 

23. The Chinese Bourgeoisie, p. 67. 

24. Ibid., p. 154. 

25. Ibid., p. 120. 

26. Ibid. 

27. Statement of Gen. Lewis W. Walt, before the Subcommittee to 
Investigate Administration of the Internal Security Act and Other 
Internal Security Laws of the Committee of the Judiciary. Hearings on 
"World Drug Traffic and its Impact on U.S. Security, " Part 4, September 
14, 1976, p. 161), "Communist guerrillas in Thailand are in control of an 
important stretch of opium growing land on the Laos frontier," Walt 
testified. "The most serious insurgency is the White Flag Communist 
Party. . . it is Pekir.g which has armed the insurgents and trained their 
leader, and supports them with a China-based radio operation. Over the 
past year, the White Flag Communist insurgency has grown to the point 
where it absorbs up to SO percent of the counter insurgency efforts of the 
Rangoon government. All the armed groups in Burma, pro-communist or 
anti-communist, have been involved in the drug trade. . . .The area that 



:- 



the Communists control is estimated at 25 percent of Burma's total 
(opium) production. Burma produces 4Q0 tons of opium a year." The 
authors cross-checked Walt's testimony with U.S. Foreign Service 
officers and found the above statement to be accurate. 

28. Apparently, the relatively small city of Swatow was the center of an 
extraordinary prerevohitton network of mainland financial links with 
expatriates that was maintained intact after the PRC was established. 
The remittance agencies, based in Swatow, Amoy, and Canton, had 1,000 
branches throughout Southeast Asia as of 1950. After the revolution, the 
PRC government transformed them into an intelligence operation, 
employing the agents of the remittance companies abroad for intelli- 
gence-gathering purposes. Once the external financial operations of 
Peking's state banks got off the ground, however, the remittance 
companies were merged into the new apparatus. 

29. Andreyev, The Chinese Bourgeoisie, p. 111. 

39. Ibid., p. 117. Much of this is of a directly political nature. "Mention 
must also be made," the Soviet author says, "of the large contribution 
made hy overseas Chinese businessmen towards financing the operation 
of PRC representatives in Southeast Asian countries (Burma and — until 
recently — Cambodia and Indonesia). Although in the given case these 
large contributions are spent in the countries concerned, they are neither 
more nor less than a clandestine form of sending foreign exchange to the 
PRC. In some cases local Chinese businessmen helped lu finance the 
propaganda campaigns of the PRC embassies, the current expenses of 
embassies and missions and even the implementation of the economic aid 
agreements signed by the PRC For example, the building of four 
factories in Cambodia under an economic aid agreement signed with the 
PRC was financed by local pro-Peking businessmen." However, 
Andreyev's data, the most current available, drop off at the critical 
period; no figures are available for the joint venture investments. The 
more recent picture was filled out through interviews with American and 
Southeast Asian specialists on PRC external finances. 



7. THE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF INTERN ATfONAL AFFAIRS 

1. John FJint Cecil Rhodes (Boston: Little, Brown, and Co., 1974). 

2. U.S. State Department. Foreign Epilations of the United States, 1949. 
Vol. VII: "The Far East: China." 

3. Christopher Thorne, "Chatham House, Whitehall, and Far Eastern 
Issues: 1941-45," International Affairs, January, 1978. The authors were 
compelled to rely on this summary rather than the original documents of 
the Royal Institute itself. However, the Thorne article is by a member of 
the RIIA, and published in the RUA's own journal, and may be 
considered an authoritative representation of the RUA's views 




254 



DOPE, INC. 




HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



concerning its own history. The 1977 release of RHA papers was, 
unfortunately, selective. Thorne notes, "The preparation of this article 
was greatly facilitated by a grant given to the Royal Institute of Inter- 
national Affairs by the Leverhulme Trust, which enabled the Institute to 
put Its archives jn an order more readily accessible to researchers. With 
the exception of papers dealing with the internal affairs of the Institute, 
those archives more than thirty years old are now open to bona fide 
research workers." The RIIA, of course, decides who is or is not bona 
fide. 

4. State Department, Foreign Relations, pp. 1289-92. 

5. Chou En-la i represented the CP in its "United Front" in Chungking 
with the Kuomintang during these years. 

6. Thorne, "Chatham House, " p. 20 

7. Peter Vladtmirov, Vladimirov Diaries* <Doubleday & Co. : 1976). 
S. Thorne, "Chatham House." pp. 4-5. 

9. Ibid. 

10. The ties of Ronning and Endicott to China go back very far and have 
served as a crucial contact between British policy and the PRC. Endicott 
was born of missionary parents in China in 189ft, and worked there as a 
Methodist minister for many years. By the time of Ihe 192? Shanghai 
massacre of communists by the KMT. Endicott admitted in a discussion 
that he was already working as an advisor to Chiang Kai-shek. In the 
early 1940s Endicott underwent a "Damascus Road" transformation to 
Marxism and became a supporter of the CCP. He became close to Chou 
En-lai during this time. Following his return to Canada. Endicott formed 
a newsletter which reported on the PRC and was a founding member of 
the Norman Bethune College at York University, working closely with 
Chester Ronning. 

Running, also bom in China of missionary parents, was in the Royal 
Canadian Air Force Intelligence during World War II. With the end of the 
War, Ronning became a Canadian foreign officer in China, during which 
time he developed close relations with CCP leaders, especially Chou En- 
lai, and current PRC Foreign Minister Huang Hua. Ronning argued 
strongly for Western recognition of the PRC after 1949, as did the loaders 
of the Far East Group of the RIIA, and was recognized as a friend by PRC 
leaders. Ronning served as translator for Huang Hua, who was the 
official spokesman for the PRC in the aftermath of the Communist 
victory. When China began diplomatic openings to the West in the early 
1970s, Canada was one of the first countries chosen for normalization. 
Ronning's friend Huang Hua was the PRC's first ambassador to Canada. 

Investigations have shown that both Paul Lin and Endicott maintain 
extensive ties to Canadian Maoist organizations, and through them, to 
international terrorist organizations. Ronning is known by professional 
intelligence officers to play a higher "coordinating" role at the 
government level of terrorist deployment; Endicott and Lin handle the 






I 



'3> 






ft 



,* r 



it 

r't 



■; 



f 



Tw 



■■«. 

V. 

% 



"field work" with the Maoists. (The information here is derived from 
team interviews with Endicott himself and associates of Paul Lin.) 

11. Thorne, "Chatham House." p. 27. 

12. State Department, Foreign Relations, pp. 12B9-92. 

13. Ibid. 

14. Christopher Wren. New York Herald Tribune, January 16. 1948. 

15. State Department, Foreign Relations, pp. 1289-92. 

16. U.S. Senate, Committee on the Judiciary, 82nd Congress. First 
Session, Subcommittee on Internal Security, Hearings on the Institute for 
Pacific Relations. Part I. ' 

17. State Department, Foreign Relations, pp. 331-332. 

18. U.S. Senate, Hearings on the Institute for Pacific Relations, Part I. 

19. Ibid. 

8. CANADA: NORTH AMERICA'S HONG KONG 

Most of the source material from this section came from analysis of 
bank and corporate annual reports and Who's Who entries; a simple 
cross-correlation of such information produced an unbroken trail of dope 
and dirty money from the Far East, through Canada, into the United 
States. The business, legal, and accounting relations noted here are all a 
matter of public record. In addition, the authors interviewed several 
former and serving Canadian and American law enforcement officers, 
who have had Waiter Lockhart Gordon and his Canadian "China 
Lobby" under scrutiny for years. 

1. An egregious example of British intelligence activity in Canada is the 
formation of the British Newfoundland Corporation (Brinco) in the early 
1950s. This project was planned by Winston Churchill, the Rothschilds, 
and Newfoundland's Premier Joseph "Joey" Small wood, a Master 
Scottish Mason. According to Virginia Cowles's book on the Rothschilds 
(1973) : 

In 1951 shortly after Winston Churchill had become Prime Minister 
for the second time, he received Mr. Smalhvood. the Premier of 
Newfoundland, SmaJlwoad unfolded plans for a vast development 
scheme in Labrador and Newfoundland. To carry it out British 
capital was needed on a truly mammoth scale. . . . When the con- 
sortium of firms was formed (Churchill) was delighted that N. M. 
Rothschild & Sons should head it. 

Participation in the founding of Brinco included the leading firms 
involved in Dope. Inc., including Morgan, Crenfell. Kleinwort and Sons, 
Rio Tinto Zinc, Anglo-American Corp., and Prudential. Cowles adds, 
" Brinco s terms of reference were breathtaking: the exploratory right to 



256 



DOPE, INC. 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



257 



sixty thousand square miles in Newfoundland and Labrador, an area 
larger than England and Wales. . . ." 

In Smaliwood's autobiography (New American Library, 1973), he 
identified himself: "In 1967 (I) enjoyed immensely the distinction of 
being installed in office <as Master Mason) by the Grand Master Mason 
(Scottish Constitution) Lord Bruce, who came from Scotland especially 
for the purpose. So I met the direct descendant oi King Robert the Bruce- 
Proud? Oh. yes." 

Brinco's board of directors today includes Mark Turner, the chairman 
of Rio Tinto Zinc, former member of the RIIA Council; Edmund de 
Rothschild, the president of H. M. Rothschild and Sons: and Sam Harris, 
the New York lawyer who is a director of Rio Tinto Zinc and whose law 
firm represents RTZ as well as the Kaplan Foundation, a hinder of 
environmentalist groups. In court papers filed by the Westinghouse 
Corporation, Harris was named a conspirator in a plan to raise artifi- 
cially the price of the world's uranium BOO percent during the 1970s. 

2. This piece of Information was an incidental product of a Labor Party 
countersurveillance operation against a number of individuals associated 
with the top management of Drexel Burnham Lambert. 

3. A.J. Colin, Pro-Consul in Politics (New York: Macmilten. 1964) . 



9. ALL IN THE FAMILY: THE HEAL SYNDICATE 

1. The cult of Jsis was developed in ancient Egypt no later than the Third 
Dynasty of the Old Kingdom, approximately 2780 B.C., and represents 
one of the earliest formal articulations of the entropic and backward 
ideology of mother-worship. As known to the Priesthood of the Temple of 
Isis — true believers themselves — the Isis cult formalizes the elements 
of a capability for social control, exploitation, and destruction of creative 
free will in subject populations. The elements include: 

•Use of various schizophrenia-inducing drugs ; 

•Use of repetitive, heteronomic sounds to supplement the effect of 
psychotropic drugs, and to create a societal aesthetic that endorses and 
encourages use of the drugs ; 

•Creation of synthetic cults based on the original reactionary Isis myth, 
but specific to the psychological profile of the population which the 
priesthood has targeted for subversion ; 

•Enforcement of a political-economic model antagonistic to general 
human progress, and containing targeted populations within non- 
creative, manual slave-labor projects (e.g., pyramid-building). 

This combination of Pharaonic cult capabilities was taken as a model 
for further refinement in this century by the British Secret Intelligence 
Service's Tavistock Institute in London — an institution which launched 
the '"counterculture" in the United States and Europe, based on the very 



v.- 



-a. 



-* 



drugs, mescaline and hashish, the Ancient Priesthood had employed (see 
Part IV) 

2. Carroll Quigley, Tragedy and Hope (New York: Macmillan Co., 1874), 
p. 131. Tbe "Circle of Initiates" formation was explicitly modeled after 
the ancient Isis Priesthood. 

3. R. S. Clymer. The Book of Rosicruciae (1947), Vol. II, p. 106. 

4. See Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr., "Is Jimmy Carter Truly a Christian?," 
New Solidarity, Vol. IX. No. $4, October 13. 1978. 

5. Cited in Nesta H. Webster, Secret Societies and Subversive Move- 
ments (London: Bos we II Printing and Publishing Co., 1924). p. 115. 

6. Their father, the 7th Earl of Elgin, was famous for his theft of the 
"Elgin Marbles" from Greece, smuggling them to the British Museum. 

7. Dictionary of National Biography (London: Oxford University Press. 
1968), Vol. IH,p.l04ff. 

8. -lean de VilHershad was the Master of the Knights of St. John of 
Jerusalem from 12H5-93, when the preparations for the slaughter of the 
Knights Templar were undertaken. Philippe Villiers de risk Adam was 
the Grand Master of the Knights of St. John in France from 1521-22, and 
was the first Grand Master in Malta from 1530-34. Today Sir Charles 
Villiers. who was the managing director of J . Henry Schroder Wage from 
19G0-68, is the chairman of the British Steel Corp. Sir John Michael 
Villiers, a Knight of St. John, was the Queen's Harbour Master Malta 

from 1952-54, and Lieutenant-Governor of Jersey, an offshore banking 
center, from 1964-69. 

9. By his own testimony in various writings. Lord Russell was in periodic 
contact with the Communist Chinese regime and Premier Chou in 
particular after 1949. 

10. For example, Rudolf Hess and Professor-General Karl Haushofer, 
ghost-writer of Mein Kampf; Alfred Rosenberg, Nazi Minister of Foreign 
Services; Max Amann. Editor in Chief of Nazi Publications; Hans Frank. 
Nazi Governor-General of Occupied Poland during World War II: and 
several members of the Wittelsbach family {the Bavarian royal family) 
who sponsored much of Adolf Hitler's career. Hitler himself was an 
associate of the society, known as a ' 'Visiting Brother.' ' 

11. The connection is visible In the 1866 founding of the "Masonic Rosi- 
crucian Society" whose leaders, Mathers. Wescott, and Woodman, also 
formed the Isis-Urama Temple of the Hermetic Students of the Golden 
Dawn in 1886- The Golden Dawn group, by 1890, included the mystic poet, 
William Butler Yeats, former Secretary of the Tbeosophist Society. 
Alcister Crowley was the order's historian during the period of Yeats's 
association with it. 

12. The LSD cult was a creation of the Royal Institute of International 

Affairs and its psychological warfare arm, the Tavistock Institute (see 
Part IV). 

During the late 1960s — at the height of the "counterculture" and 



258 



DOPE, INC. 



"hippy movement" in the United States — the Director of the RIIA. 
Andrew Schonfield. was a member of the Tavistock Institute's Governing 
Council. In 1967, during Schonfield's tenure at RIIA and Tavistock. 
Tavistock's leading Staff Psychologist, R. D. Laing, published his book. 
The Politics of Experience, which advocated schizophrenia (''madness is 
the only sanity") and drug use. Laing writes: 

1 want you to taste and smell me, want to he palpable, to get under 
your skin, to be an itch in your brain and in your guts that you can't 
scratch out and that you can't allay, that will corrupt and destroy 

you and drive you mad. 

During the 19GQs, the Tavistock Institute received large grants from the 
Ford Foundation, the British Center for Environmental Studies, the 
British Defense Ministry. Harvard University, and at least £22.797 from 
the Social Science Research Council of which Schonfield was chairman 

at the time. 

13. See Robert Cohen and L. Wolfe. 'Karl Haushofer> Mein Kama!" 

New Solidarity. Vol IX. No. 45. August 7. 1978. 

14. Cited in John Flint. Cecil Rhodes, p. 27. 

15. Martin Fido, Rudyard Kipling (New York: Viking Press, 1974) . 

16. Ibid., p. 35. 

17. See Harbans Rai Bachchan. W. B. Yeats and Occultism (Delhi: 

Motilal Banarsidass, 19G5). 

IS. See Lyndon H. LaRouche. Jr., ''Hitler: Runaway British Agent," 

New Solidarity, Vol. VIII. No. 87. January 10, 1978. 

19. Tennyson In 1820 had been a member of the "Cambridge Apostles" 

which initiated the Metaphysical Society in 1868-69, Other members of the 

Metaphysical Society included H. W. Ackland. the Duke of Argyie. 

Alexander Campbell Fraser. William Gladstone, Shadworth Hodgson, 

and Walter Bagehot. This group included prominent members of the 

Society for Psychical Research. Mind magazine, and the Fabian Society. 

20- Verse 8 of the Choric Song of the poem. 

21. History of the Times, Vol- IV: 1912-1920 (New York: Macmillan Co., 
.1952), p. 244. The relevant section reads: 

On Jan. 19, 1917, Milner left London at the head of an Allied mission 
which, during three weeks in Petrograd, laid down a suitable 
scheme for keeping the Russian forces supplied with Western 
munitions. . . . It was widely believed at the time that the February 
Revolution (installing Kerensky — ed.) was hatched at the British 
Embassy. 

22. After the destruction of the Knights Templar in the 14th century, the 
Knights of St. John appropriated the Templars' Red Cross symbol into 
their own iconography. 



I 

I' 

f 



HOW THE DRUG EMPIRE WORKS 



259 



- 



i 



■■■ 



$ 



•>, 



■ 







According to Ferdinand Lundberg. America '$ 60 Families (New York: 
Vanguard Press, 1937), p. 14Gff: 

The Russian Mission of the Red Cross was headed by Col. William 
Boyce Thompson and Co). Raymond Robbins . . . (who) used the 
Red Cross to forward the war aims of Wall Street in a way unsus- 
pected by the American people. The purely political function of the 
Red Cross is not generally appreciated even today. 

. . . Thompson and Robbins, according to their own statements, 
functioned in Russia as a political arm of the War Department. 
Their crowning achievement was the purchase of enough delegates 
to the Ail-Russian Democratic Congress (to support Kerensky — 
ed.). The cost of seducing this congress was $1,000,000. 

■ 

Winston Churchill's wife, Clementine, a Commander of the Order of St. 
John, served as the Chairman of the Red Cross Aid to Russia Fund from 
1339-46. The same uaes of the "Red Cross" cover for intelligence 
operations is implicit in the fact thai a direct descendant of King Robert 
Bruce of Scotland, David Bruce, was the Chief Representative of the 
American Red Cross in Britain in 1040, and one year later, in 1941, 
became heed of Office of Strategic Services <OSS> Operations in the 
European Theatre; the same David Bruce, during the Nixon Administra- 
tion years, was selected by Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to be Chief 
of the U.S. Mission to the People's Republic of China from 1973-74, and 
then became U.S. Ambassador to NATO from 1974-76. 
23. For example, in his April 1938 Annual Report to the Shareholders of 
Rio Tinto, chairman Geddes noted that : 

Our company has received recently a great deal of attention in the 
press of many countries. Propagandists possessed of lively 
Imaginations but devoid of respect for accuracy have told the world 
of our doings. In result a lot of nonsense has been published, 
evidently designed to suggest that your Board is composed of 
violent fascists actively participating on the side of General 
Franco. I read the other day an article in which it was stated as a 
fact that we had sent in a year 300,000 tons of copper to Germany 
and 65.000 tons to Italy to pay for supplies from those two countries 
to General Franco. - - . This is fust rubbish. ... I have seen it 
staled in the press that we.. . your Board . . . "gave" . . . help to 
General Franco's cause. It depends on your meaning of the verb 
"to give." 

Significantly, in 1923's Annual Report by then-Chairman Lord Alfred 
Milner, it was stated that 1l The constantly increasing burden of taxation, 
especially in Spain, where the (republican — ed.) government is 
evidently convinced that it Can never kill the goose that lays golden 



260 



DOPE, INC. 



eggs. ..." (Sec David Avery, Not On Queen Victoria's Birthday: The 
Story of the Rio Tinto Mines, London. 1973, pp. 371ff.) 

Auckland Geddes' grandfather had been the Hudson's Bay Company's 
official agent in Scotland. His second nephew, Anthony, was a member of 
the Governing Council of the Royal Institute of international Affairs in 
1949, alongside Sir Mark Turner, RioTinto's current chairman. The same 
Anthony is a director of the Midland Bank. 



I 



PART 




Organized Crime 






t- 



! 



.' 









i ; 



■ 
... 






j 




Introduction 



\ 




We have now taken the reader through the production and 
wholesaling phase of Dope, Incorporated. We have introduced 
the Far East clearinghouse bank, the Hongkong & Shanghai Bank 
and the gold and diamond houses that with HongShang feed the 
black market with invisible forms of payment. 

In the following pages we will concentrate on the distribution 
side of Dope, Incorporated'^ business cycle. We will first enter 
the Canadian board rooms where the Keswicks, the Inchcapes 
and their representatives brush shoulders with the wholesalers of 
the drug trade — the Zionist Hoffuden middlemen — whose 
assigned task is to ensure swift and secure delivery of that "most 
valuable source of revenue" to Britain's retail distributors: the 
mob. The Bronfman family of Canada is our leading case, since 
they are the top middlemen for the U.S. market which, in turn, is 
the richest in the world. 

Beneath the respectable veneer of the Bronfmans' corporate 
financial empire we will uncover Dope, Incorporated subsidi- 
aries that control the criminal underworld of North America. We 
will look closely at Meyer Lansky, the Marceilo family, and other 



263 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



265 



"Mafia" figures and discover that like China's Green Gang, the 

mob is a secret array, a fifth column controlled by Britain against 

the United States. 
We will trace the drug money to the gambling casinos and other 

"legitimate" enterprises that are the syndicate's indispensable 
storefront cover for the drug trade. From these respectable 
enterprises we will trace the drug money into the halls of the 
state assemblies, city councils, congressional offices, and into 
the pockets of America's contemporary Benedict Arnolds and 
Aaron Burrs, among whom we will find Edward Kennedy, Jacob 
Javits, Henry "Scoop" Jackson, and other leading lights of the 
Zionist Lobby. We will find tainted heroin money being funneled 
into Zionist organizations and from Zionist fronts back into 
political machines for the dual purpose of buying protection 
for the drug trade and shaping U.S. policy. 

We will then take a grand tour through the Anglo-Dutch 
offshore hanking centers, watching money being laundered 
through Basel, Liechtenstein. Tel Aviv, and the Bahamas; tracing 
it carefully as it changes ownership from the mob, to the 
Bronfmans, to British banks, to the Israeli Mossad — finally 
ending up in dummy corporations to finance international 
terrorism and a privately owned worldwide assassination 

bureau. 
By the time we finish, the reader will have a view of organized 

crime that tears to shreds all the fairy tales of the drugstore 
novels and Grade-B Hollywood productions. The image of 
gangsters and thieves lurking in the dark underworld will 
dissipate before the fact that we are dealing with the most highly 
integrated, top-down political machinery in the world— one that 
enjoys the logistical support of a $200 billion per annum inter- 
national cartel and the "protection" of every political entity 
Britain has created through these vast "invisible earnings." 



The cutouts 

The police investigator has a problem in trying to track down 
the source of the drug trade; he invariably proceeds from the 






bottom up and gets lost along the way long before he reaches the 
level of command that counts. Every year, local police arrest 
thousands of street corner and schoolyard pushers, yet it is a rare 
occasion when any of these arrests leads to the arrest of higher 
up syndicate figures who ply the street trade in the first place. 
And these local syndicate warlords are themselves usually 
several steps removed from the "Mr. Bigs." 

As Part II of this report demonstrated, at the top, British 
banking — through HongShang — controls the production and 
wholesaling side of Dope, Incorporated. This "outfront" activity 
in the Far East is protected by the legal technicality that the area 
is off-limits to U.S. investigative agencies. (As one experienced 
U.S. foreign service officer put it, "It would be easier for a white 
Anglo-Saxon Protestant to penetrate the Politburo of the Chinese 
Communist Party than it would be to gain access to the Hong 
Kong or Swiss bank accounts of the drug traders.") At the retail, 
distribution end, there is no parallel way of directly linking the 
British oligarchy to the drug traffic — at least not with the 
ordinary tools of the police trade. 

One of the ABCs of any covert operation is the time-tested 
practice of securing middlemen — or, to use the professional 
expression, "cutouts" — that effectively conceal the identities of 
the stage managers who run the show from behind the lace and 
velvet curtains. From the top all the way down to the street level, 
Dope. Incorporated is run through layer upon layer of such 
cutouts. 

Even in China, where the British Crown brazenly pursued its 
opium policy, it operated through the corrupted Soong family 
which carried out the day-to-day business operations for Jardine 
Matheson. 

In the West, the prime cutout for Dope. Incorporated is the 
Zionist Lobby. 

This cutout begins at the top with the cohesive grouping of 
Hofjuden ("Court Jews") who serve the British monarchy as 
loyal, wholly owned servants. These families, whom we will meet 
by name, have a centuries-long tradition of attaching themselves 
to the predominant noble houses of Europe, providing 
indispensable services as tax-farmers and errand boys for the 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CHIME 



267 



types of missions that the aristocrats would prefer to plan but not 
get caught in carrying out. 

Many of these Hofjuden families migrated from Amsterdam to 
Britain after the "Glorious Revolution" (1688), which brought the 
Dutch House of Orange onto the British throne in alliance with 
the most bucolic, feudalist landed gentry of the Isles. That Anglo- 
Dutch merger of the late 17th century turned Britain into the 
most powerful center of the European oligarchical faction — a 
status it has maintained for three centuries. For these Hofjuden 
families, the relocation to Britain marked no shift in allegiance ; 
they have functioned as servants for the oligarchical system, not 
for specific houses. Several of the Hofjuden families who 
converged on London during the 17th and 18th centuries had 
served the Genoese bankers in their takeover of Holland, had 
participated in the Dutch East India Company's first expeditions 
in opium trade, and had collaborated over the centuries with the 
British Jesuits against European humanist forces. 

The Hofjuden should not be confused with the Jewish people. In 
much the same way that one would not condemn an entire nation 
for the crimes committed by its most deranged citizens, one 
cannot condemn the entire Jewish people for the centuries of 
crime committed by the Hofjuden. The only relationship the 
Hofjuden have had to Jewry is that of persecutors and tormentors . 
As the clandestine operations bureau for the oligarchy, they 
quickly learned that they could augment their capabilities 
tremendously by subjecting Jews to waves of persecutions and 
then recruiting terrorized Jews into Zionist organizations that 
had as their ostensible aim the "survival" of Jewry! In street 

parlance, the Hofjuden have run a six-century-long protection- 
extortion racket against the Jewish people — to the overall effect 
of building up a sizable ' 'Zionist" network at the disposal of 
British Secret Intelligence. This traditional relationship to Jewry 
was carried to its lawful conclusion in the 20th century when the 
Rothschilds, Warburgs, Oppenbeimers, Schrocders, and other 
Hofjuden became the leading financial backers of Adolf Hitler. 

One of the greatest benefits that the Hofjuden gained by their 
complicity in Hitler's genocide of the East European population 
was that they could henceforth hide behind the memory of the 



~. 



■& 



:■■ 

V 



'i 



V 






' '.■ 



awesome fate of millions of Jews and conduct the filthiest sorts of 
operations — from drug-running to terrorism to genocide against 
Arab and related populations — without being exposed for these 
crimes against humanity. Whenever any critic attempted to 
expose these crimes, he was quickly assaulted as a "Nazi,'* a 
"fascist/* or an "anti-Semite/' 

It is neither unrelated nor coincidental that these Zionist 
Hofjuden were delegated the role of cutouts between the inner 
circles of the British nobility and the filthiest gutters of organized 
crime. Even within the Hofjuden, we encounter two levels: one is 
the centuries-old families (the Hofjuden "elite") who rub 
shoulders with and are intermarried with the nobility; and the 
second, the "initiates" — "chosen" by the Hofjuden elite to be the 
drug-runners, the bootleggers, the murderers, and extortionists 
— who themselves hope that by slavishly serving the British oli- 
garchy they will be placed among the ranks of the Zionist 
"respectables." 

Within the first category, we find such "respectable houses" 
as these; 

The Montefiores trace their origin as "special operations" 
experts for the European oligarchy to the Uth century in Spain, 
when they ran errands as tax farmers and Inquisitors for their 
masters, the Genoese. The Montefiores later moved to Holland to 
help found the Dutch East India Company and the Bank of 
Holland, After the Stuart Restoration of the raid- 17th century, the 
Montefiores moved to England where they helped establish the 
Bank of England and the British East India Company. Under Sir 
Moses Montefiore, the family collaborated with Lord Palmcrston 
and Prime Minister Disraeli in the founding of the present-day 
Zionist "movement." 

The Goldsmids and Mocattas have been the leading bullion 
merchants for the royal family of England since the Stuart 
Restoration, predating the founding of the Bank of England, As 
we have seen, both families conduct a significant portion of the 
black marketeering in precious metals for the Hong Kong drug 
traffic. 

The Oppenbeimers control a large portion of the diamond and 
gold mining in South Africa and are interlocked with the 



i 



DOPE, INC. 



HongShang Bank to provide yet another means of exchange for 
drug transactions. 

The Canadian de Hirsch family bankrolled much of the Jewish 
migration from Eastern Europe to Canada and is still a bank- 
roller of Zionist organizations. 

The Sassoons were the first Hofjuden family to concentrate 
their resources primarily in opium production. Known as the 
"Rothschilds of the East," they settled in India at the beginning 
of the 18th century. The Sassoons relocated in 1949 to the Carib- 
bean where they established themselves on the ground floor of 
casino gambling and unregulated offshore banking. 

The Rothschilds began their fortune in Hesse-Cassel, Germany 
by supplying Hessian mercenaries to the Hanoverian King 
George HI of Britain against the American colonies. They are 
" johnny-come-lately s" to the Hofjuden circle, having only 
seriously gained a place in the oligarchical court with the Treaty 
of Vienna in 1815. From that point, however, the Rothschilds have 
expended considerable resources toward the subversion of the 
American republic: they maintain an "investment" presence in 
Dope, Incorporated. 

Immediately below the Hofjuden elite are those "initiate" 
families selected and sponsored to run the criminal underworld 
and its "legitimate" front organizations. Into this category falls 
the powerful Bronfman family of Canada, the Hong Kong of 
North America. By all accounts one of the richest families in the 
world, the Bronfmans are a sterling example of a family hand- 
picked and raised out of the gutter to become some of the best 
paid crooks in the world. A Bronfman illegal loan of $350,000 to 
the Campaign to Re-Elect Hugh Carey as Governor of New York 
recently caused a public outcry, but as the story we now tell 
shows, the Bronfmans themselves are owned and operated by the 
British banking elite ot Dope, Incorporated. 



1 



f 



I 






i - 



- 






The Bronfman Gang 



The Bronfman family is best known to Americans through its 
ownership of Seagram, the biggest liquor company in North 
America. The family's holdings stretch from whiskey, banking, 
mining, real estate, and — although somewhat less publicized — 
narcotics. Today they are regarded as respectable and out- 
standing "philanthropists" whose name is attached to everything 
important in Canada — and Israel — be it government, business, 
or "cultural" affairs. 

This was not always the public profile of the Bronfman family. 
Less than 50 years ago, they were known to be the biggest boot- 
leggers in North America and were referred to by the less 
prestigious title "the Bronfman gang." 

The Bronfmans have always been beholden to the Hofjuden 
elite. The first member of the family to come to North America 
was Yechiel Bronfman, a grist mill owner from Bessarabia, Ro- 
mania, who later anglicized his name to Ekicl. Yechiel emi- 
grated to Canada in 1889 under the sponsorship of the Moses 
Montefiore Jewish Colonialization Committee. (1) 

This enterprise had been initiated at an 1872 meeting between 




269 



270 



DOPE, INC. 



Baron Maurice dc Hirsch T Baron Alfred de Rothschild, and other 
Zionists that established a Jewish Colonialization Association to 
bring selected Russian and Eastern European Jews to agri- 
cultural settlements ("kibbutzim") in the Canadian provinces of 
Manitoba and Saskatchewan. (2) The same period marked the 
transfer of the Warburg, Kuhn, Loeb, and related Our Crowd 
migration from Germany and Britain into lower Manhattan. In 
1912 William Sebag Montefiore himself arrived in Montreal 
where he spent the remainder of his life (d. 1950). Lord Harold 
Sebag Montefiore, current head of the Jerusalem Foundation 
(the Zionist wing of the Most Venerable Order of St. John of Jeru- 
salem) was sent to Canada for his early education. In the same 
period, Baron de Hirsch established the De Hirsch Foundation in 
Canada as the umbrella lor all Canadian Jewish "philanthropic" 
activities and the Montefiores created a club (named after the 
family) to service the resident Zionist elites. The Rothschilds, 
too, planted a branch of their family on Canadian soil. 

Meanwhile, in Saskatchewan, the Bronfman family found little 
interest in eking a living out of the plains of midwestern Canada, 
The strenuously Orthodox Jewish family first turned to selling 
wood, then to horse trading, and then most successfully to the 
hotel business (and prostitution). (3) 

In Yiddish Bronfman means "liquorman," and the hotel 
business put the Bronfmans in a good position to take advantage 
of the 1915 advent of Canadian prohibition. Bronfman hotels 
became "boozeriums." Prohibition — enacted on orders from the 
Privy Council as the prelude to the 1920s U.S. Prohibition and 
birth of organized crime — catapulted the Bronfmans into the 
multimillionaire bracket and a status as the untouchable 
kingpins of crime in North America. 

During Canada's four dry yearsfroml915tol919, the Bronfmans 
established their contacts with U.S. criminal figures for illegally 
importing liquor into Canada. In 1916, the Bronfmans established 
their first link with the opium trade proper. Samuel and Abe 
Bronfman, two of Ekiel's four sons, collaborated with the 
Hudson's Bay Company — in which the Keswick family of 
Jardine Matheson had controlling interest — to buy the Canadian 
Pure Drug Company. In this way the Bronfmans rushed into the 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



271 



loophole in the War Measures Act that permitted the distribution 
by pharmacists of alcohol for "medicinal" purposes. 

When prohibition in Canada ended in 1919 and Prohibition in the 
United States began, the Bronfmans simply turned from whiskey 
importing to whiskey exporting. After it was all over, in May 1936 
the Bronfmans agreed to pay $1.5 million to settle their account 
with the U.S. Treasury; the sum amounted to an admission that 
half the liquor that came into the United States during Prohi- 
bition was from the "liquor mans." (4) 

The "Seagram Chickencock" the family poured across the 
border was pure poison — a mixture of pure alcohol, sulfuric 
acid, caramel, water, and aged rye whiskey that paralyzed its 
victim. Between 3920 and 1930. 34,000 Americans died from 
alcohol poisoning. 

Their control of liquor flow into Prohibition USA gave the 
Bronfmans literally life-and-death control over American crime. 
Refusing to play ball with the Bronfman gang usually spelled 
death, and independently minded gang bosses were often known 
to be executed by their lieutenants on the Bronfmans* behalf. One 
of the buyers best liked by the gang was New York City beer 
baron Arthur Flegenheimer. a.k.a. Dutch Schultz, who suc- 
ceeded in wiping out his competition including the notorious 
killer Legs Diamond. Schultz himself was later rubbed out when 
he took it into his head to murder the reforming New York 
District Attorney Thomas Dewey. (We will meet up with Mr. 
Dewey later in regard to the Mary Carter Paint Company.) (5) 

In the first years of Prohibition, Ekiel's four boys ran all boot- 
legging from the prairie states of Canada to major distribution 
sites south like Chicago. To secure the shipment lines, Harry set 
up a dummy firm, Transcanada Transport Company. Trans- 
canada was a protective cover for the Canadian Pacific Railway 
owned by respectable gentlemen back in London, which ran the 
whiskey across the border. (6) The Bronfmans also bought up 
stretches of barren farmland along the border and even built an 
underground pipeline to pump their "chickencock" into the 
United States. 

During these early years, the Bronfmans were scarcely under 
the protective wing of their Zionist sponsors. Thus, for example, 



272 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



273 



in 1332 Bronfman brother-in-law Paul Matoff was executed 
gangland-style by the Chicago mob in a dispute over profit 
splitting. A scandal ensued, public hearings were convened, and 
the Bronfman crimes came spilling out into the light of day. The 
Bronfmans received a mild reprimand from the Canadian 
government and relocated their operations to Montreal. 

1922 also marks the year that the Bronfmans procured their 
own distillery, hauled with workmen included from Kentucky to 

Montreal. 

Since 1920 the Bronfmans had been importing British whiskey 
from the Distillery Company of London (DCL) , which controlled 
more than half the world market in scotch whiskey. Owned by the 
higher echelons of the British nobility including Field Marshal 
Haig. Lord Dewar, Lord Woolavington, and others, the dispen- 
sation of distribution rights was a decision made by HM the 
King. In 1926, upon the request of Samuel Bronfman, the DCL 
agreed to go 50-50 in the Bronfmans' distillery and the Distillery 
Corporation Limited was formed as a holding company with 
Bronfman and Seagram distilleries. Headquarters were estab- 
lished at the Bronfmans' corporate castle in Montreal, but it was 
the Distillery Company of London's William Ross who was 
installed as president with Sam Bronfman as vice-president. 
The British elite had made a decision to go with the Bronfman 
option. 

Despite the massive infusion of capital and the newly gained 
legitimacy the link-up with DCL afforded them, the smell of 
Bronfman smuggling both into and out of Canada and tfieir 
wholesale bribery of Canadian customs a la Hong Kong had 
gotten too strong. In 1926 the Royal Commission on Customs 
recommended the immediate prosecution of Harry Bronfman on 
charges. of attempted bribery. Nothing happened, but shortly 
thereafter the Bronfmans created the Atlas Shipping Company 
and moved their smuggling operations to the French islands of 
St. Pierre and Miqueion, 15 miles off the Newfoundland coast. 
With licenses in Bermuda, Saint John, New Brunswick, and Bel- 
ize. British Honduras, the Atlas Shipping Company was one of the 
first ties laid down in the dirty money-drug underground railway 
between Canada and the Caribbean. (7) 



h 



I 



* 




A little ditty popular during the time indicates the amusement 
with which the British viewed the entire operation: 

Four and twenty Yanks 
Feeling very dry, 
Went across the horder 
To get a drink of rye. 
When the rye was opened, 
The Yanks began to sing: 

"God bless America, 
But God save the King," 



Organized crime comes of age 

With Prohibition, crime became a bigtime business. It was no 
longer based on small-scale prostitution, loan sharking, or petty 
protection rackets. Now it was centralized around the marketing 
of one precious and outlawed commodity whose supply was 
controlled from London and from the British colony of Canada. 
Crime was reorganized from top to bottom into an integrated 
wholesale and retail distribution chain with well-defined 
marketing districts, quotas, and uniform pricing. Crime became 
syndicated. 

Hundreds of movies spewed out of Hollywood about the 
"Roaring Twenties" have glamorized the truth: with Prohibi- 
tion, Britain — through its Bronfman Gang cutout — had created 
a nationally syndicated crime cancer. Within a decade of the 
Roaring Twenties, the Bronfman syndicate would be peddling 
heroin, cocaine, and every other available poisonous drug 
through the same wholesaling, transporting, and retailing 
system that bootlegged booze. 

Bronfman's counterpart in the United States was one Arnold 
Roihstein. Just as Bronfman made it into the bigtime under the 
auspices of the Hofjodca elite, so Arnie Rothstein was sponsored 
by Our Crowd Zionist investment bankers who arrived in 
New York as the Montefiores were setting up business in Canada. 



2?4 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



275 



Arnold Rothstein — the godfather of organized crime — was the 
son of a wealthy Our Crowd dry goods merchant. 

At the turn of the century, the Russell Sage Foundation had 
issued a well-publicized field study of loan sharking in New York 
City. ($) The report's wide publicity resulted in the bankrupting, 
jailing, or takeover of the petty gangsters by Rothstein, who 
emerged as a powerful Tammany Hall figure with a fabled loan 
sharking business estimated at several million dollars. 

Regionwide combines were formed up and down the East Coast 
for smooth distribution. The Reinfeld Syndicate — named after 
the Newark, New Jersey bootlegger and accused murderer 
Joseph Reinfeld — functioned as the middleman between the 
British liquor distilleries and the "Rum Rows' of Boston and 
Hew York, Its controlling shareholders were the four Bronfman 
brothers, Allan, Sam, Edgar, and Charles. The U.S. leg was 
handled by Reinfeld and Abner "Longie" Zwiilman, later the 
boss of Atlantic City, and Rothstein's gangs in New York. (3) 

In 1927, the Big Seven combine consolidated the entire East 
Coast distribution system. Its organizer was John Torrio — a 
dapper little gentleman who without benefit of family, racket, or 
turf had gained notoriety for eliminating any local crime bosses 
who stood in the way of national syndication. Torrio was a 
Bronfman man who had murdered his own uncle to prove it. 
Brought into Chicago in 1910 by his uncle, racketeer "Big Jim" 
Colosimo, Torrio smelled the wind on the eve of Prohibition and 
demanded that his uncle start making the right contacts to get 
into the lucrative business of bootlegging. When "Big Jim" 
refused, Torrio had him murdered and took over the Chicago 
mob as the distribution point for the Bronfman liquor. (10) 

In 1925. Torrio suddenly left Chicago heading first for Havana 
and then landing in Italy. Returning to the United States in 1927 
after he miraculously "escaped" Mussolini's purges of the 
Mafia, Torrio came back with one goal: to build a nationally 
organized crime syndicate. 

While the mad killers and punks like Dutch Schultz, Legs 
Diamond, and Al Capone made the headlines every day and 
provided good material for gangster movies. John Torrio quietly 
continued the work that Arnold Rothstein (assassinated in 192$) 



I 









had begun, now with the aid of Rothstein's successor Meyer 
Lansky. Torrio could do what Lansky and the Bronfmans were 
prohibited from doing for reasons of ethnicity: discipline the 
scores of family local crime chieftains and "moustache petes 1 ' 
into one centralized business that could penetrate every sector of 
the economy. Known as the "assassin who never carries a gun," 
Torrio presented himself as the elder statesman of organized 
crime and commanded respect from the Mafia locals. "Coopera- 
tion is good for business" was his slogan. 

The Bis Seven had been Torrio' s first step. The cooperative of 
East Coast bootleggers controlled from the top down to the local 
levels all prices, membership, centralized distribution points, 
corruption, and protection. 

By 1928 Torrio was able to call a Cleveland meeting to establish 
a nationwide crime syndicate. (U) The gathering was unique in 
that it had succeeded in bringing together into one room all the 
crime bosses of every major organized city. There were three 
items on the agenda. First, how to use the huge profits of Prohibi- 
tion and invest them in legitimate business that would permit a 
steadily increasing take for the syndicate. Second, how to deal 
with the Italian question. The ritual vendetta murders of the 
Mafioso families were good for the newspapers, said Torrio, but 
bad for business. Immediately after the meeting the Castellam- 
marese gang wars broke out in New York as the test case for 
Torrio's syndicate. Under the auspices of Lansky and Torrio. 
Lucky Luciano succeeded in wiping out all recalcitrant god- 
fathers. During the last night of the war — the infamous "Night of 
the Sicilian Vespers" — over 40 people were gunned down. (12) 

With cartelization came the need for more long-Lasting regu- 
lation — gangland style. In the early 1930s Murder, Incorporated 
was formed as a regulatory commission of sorts to police any 
overzealous "free enterprise" advocates who might try to buck 
the syndicate. A special assassination bureau was set up by 
Meyer Lansky and Benjamin "Bugs" Siegel. The "Bugs and 
Meyer Gang" had been distinguished by the fact that they owed 
allegiance to no one (except maybe Arnold Rothstein) ; they had 
originally been used to protect Bronfman Liquor shipments 
across the border against "freelance" hijackers. (13) 



A 



276 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



277 






By 1932 Torrio was strong enough to puJI together another 
meeting of the syndicate, this time in Atlantic City, where a 
National Commission — the board of directors of organized 
crime — was officially formed. Aside from the leading Italian 
rnafinsi who had survived the transition, Meyer Lansky, now 
regarded as the financial and enforcement wizard of the syndi- 
cate, and Atlantic City's ZwiUman were in attendance as honored 

guests. 

Thus, for the British, Prohibition was a roaring success. What 
had begun as a three-way contract between Britain (the 
supplier), Bronfman <the cutout) , and Rothstein (the distributor) 
had become within the space of a decade a nationally organized 
crime syndicate — a private, secret army under British banking 
and political control. 

The Rothstein-Hong Kong connection 

To pick up the story of the modern-day Dope, Incorporated, let 
us return to Cleveland and John Torrio's first 192ft meeting of the 
syndicate. The third item on the agenda was what to do after 
Prohibition. The commodity, Torrio proposed, that would replace 
liquor as the black-market, big-profit taker wasnarcotics 

When Prohibition began in 1920 Arnold Rothstein had person- 
ally gone to Great Britainjo establish the liquor pipeline with the 
British distilleries. Less known but more important is that at the 
same time he had dispatched his underling Jacob "Yasha" 
Katzenberg to Shanghai to begin negotiations for a dope pipeline 
from the Far East into the East Coast of the United States. (14) 
(The West Coast had been sewn up in the previous century with a 
pipeline from Shanghai straight into the Pacific Chinese coolie 
communities.) 

It was projected that the same networks established to bootleg 
liquor could Just as easily smuggle and retail narcotics. By 1926, 
U.S. narcotics agent-ort-the-scene in the Far East, Ralph Oyler, 
wrote back to his boss Levi Nutt, chief of the U.S. Narcotics 
Division, that the opium market had expanded so tremendously 
that Britain was "even taking shipments of crude opium from the 



l 



%. 






'■■■ 



..■: 



■ 



Near East to add to her gigantic supply of Asian opium" in order 
to meet market demand. The traditional opium families of Kes- 
wick, Sassoon, and Inchcape were preparing for the future. (15) 
One year after Oyler's report the 1927 Shanghai massacre put 
an end to all challenges to the rule of opium. The Shanghai 
uprising had been an attempt by the nationalist factions within 
the Kuomintang and Communist Parly to destroy the opium 
dealers, such as the Soong family, who had seized control over 

the government and had carved up China into drug-running "war- 
lord" satrapies. The massacre was carried out by the Green 
Gang Syndicate, acting on orders and funding from the Extra- 
territorial International Settlements on Shanghai headed by Lord 
William Johnston Keswick. The British enclave harbored the 
Green Gang criminals at the time of the massacre, and the 
British-dominated Municipal Council (headed again by Lord 
Keswick) turned over trade union leaders and others to Green 
Gang criminals who executed them. (1$) Had the Shanghai 
massacre occurred during the previous century, it would have 
been known as the Third Opium War; the consequence of the 
slaughter was yet another dramatic increase in British opium 
control over China. 

The two principal Green Gang leaders involved in the 
massacre were Tu Yueh-sheng, "whose factories flooded the 
American market with narcotics" after the coup, and Huang 
Chin-jung. who was Arnold Rothstein's contact man. British-dom- 
inated post-1927 Shanghai was to become for the next 14 years the 
premier drug depot for the world. 

This shift East in the production of the opium cycle has been 
documented by Jonathan Marshall in the Bulletin of Concerned 
Asian Schoiars: 

By the late 1920s. China was a net exporter of opium, and 
within a few years it replaced the Near East as the world's 
opium smuggling capital. By 1931, China produced seven- 
eighths of the world's narcotics. Chinese opium flooded the 
world markets through Hong Kong, Shanghai and Macao. 
... By the mid-1 930s. Chinese heroin dominated the 
American market. 



;■■ 



278 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



279 



As documented by Marshall, Lord Keswick and the other 
controllers of the opium trade imposed the Green Gang dope 
merchants in power in China, making the production and 
distribution of opium the backbone of the Chinese economy.. The 
consequences were predictable: unparalleled genocide against 
the Chinese population. 

In early July, 1932, T.V. Soong. who had resigned (as 
Finance Minister — ed.) the month before after failing to 
raise enough money for the communist suppression cam- 
paign, hinted that he would return to office if a new source 
of revenue — such as opium — could be found. He picked up 
the support of the influential H.G.W. Woodhead, who. prob- 
ably reflecting the sentiment of the British business com- 
munity (i.e., 'Keswick, the HongShang. and Standard and 
Chartered — ed.) argued that only such a monopoly could 
solve China's financial crisis. An opium monopoly was a 
small price to pay to protect the stability of China's busi- 
ness climate. . , . 

(Due to the forced cultivation of opium — ed.) millions of 
acres of land were taken out of food production. In food- 
short China, this reduced the margin of peasant survival 
... the most notorious case of famine brought on by over- 
cultivation of opium occurred in Shaanx! province between 
1928 and 1933. It took as many as six million lives in four 
provinces, wiping out perhaps a third of the entire popula- 
tion of Shaanxi province. (1 7) 

Let us now stand back and review — in light of this history — 
the jigsaw puzzle pieces that fall into place with Yasha 
Katzenberg's trip to Shanghai and the sealing of an opium pact. 

First, Arnold Rothstein. Yasha Katzenberg's employer, was a 
product of the Rothschild "dry goods" empire that included the 
Seligman. Wannamaker, and Gimbel families. During Prohibi- 
tion, according to the Bronfmans* own testimony, Rothstein, 
Meyer l.ansky, and Lucky Luciano were the Bronfmans' main 
distributors. As Prohibition came to a close Bronfman asso- 
ciates traveled to Shanghai and Hong Kong to streamline and 



r- 
■'•: 



■!" 



• . 









expand the drug trade into the United States, negotiating with the 
foremost Chinese drug-runners who were not only encouraged 
but pressured by the British "business community" to pull 
together an opium cartel. 

The man dictating the opium policy to China in this period, the 
man who sired the T.V, Soong opium monopoly, was Sir William 
Johnston Keswick of Jardine Matheson and the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Bank. From the period of the Shanghai massacre to 
1942 when he was interned by the Japanese, Keswick directed the 
International Settlements of Shanghai — the period of gross 
expansion of Shanghai heroin into the United States. The same 
Sir William Keswick was until very recently the director of the 
Hudson's Bay Company of Canada, the same company, it will be 
recalled, that collaborated with Sam and Abe in 1916 to found the 
Pure Drug Company for illegal distribution of whiskey into 
Canada. 

Working for Hudson's Bay along with Keswick is Sir Eric 
Drake, who not only sits on the board of several Bronfman-run 
banks and companies, but is also an employee of the Inchcape 
family and presently the deputy chairman of the Inchcapes' 
Peninsular & Orient Steamship Company. The current chairman 
of the board is the son of the Lord Inchcape who in 1923 called for 
the expansion of "that most valuable source of revenue" — the 
Opium trade. 

Sir Eric Drake is also a member of the board of Canadian 

Pacific, which plays a most vital role in the transshipment of 

drugs through Canada into the United States, just as they did with 
alcohol during the Prohibition, Along with Lord Trevelyan, who 
heads up the HongShang's "gpld-for-dope" exchange from his 
position at the British Bank of the Middle East, and Lord 
Inchcape, Sir Eric Drake sits on the board of British Petroleum, 
as does Sir William Johnston Keswick. 

Sitting on the board of the Bank of Montreal along with Charles 
Bronfman and two Seagram directors are J. Bartlett Morgan, 
William Arbuckle, and F.S. Bur bridge, who in turn sit on the 
boards of Hudson's Bay, Canadian Pacific, and a host of other 
banks and corporations in which the drug families of the 
HongShang nexus play a policy-making role. 



280 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



281 



We are not charging "guilt by association" but rather making 
note of the fact that the series of "legitimate" enterprises the 

Bronfmans moved into toward the close of Prohibition are indis- 
tinguishable from and intermeshed with companies controlled by 
Keswick, Inchcape, and other leading opium traders. During 
the same period, these gentlemen openly supervised the drug 
trade into the United States. This association not only continues 
to this day but is the mainstay of the Bronfman empire. 



Going legit ain't necessarily kosher 

With the repeal of Prohibition and with the Shanghai opium 
deal in operation, the Bronfmans, like so many of their partners 
across the border, "went legit," Organized crime sunk its mil- 
lions in legitimate businesses that both acted as cover for illegal 
activities and set up the laundry networks for dirty money. The new 
phase of respectability signaled that the most successful bigtime 
whiskey bootleggers were switching to bigtime narcotics. 

In the early days, the Bronfmans had to run all the risks of the 
smuggler's profession. They had to dodge the law, stay one step 
ahead of the desperadoes on the other side of the border, and 
whenever things went wrong, face the humiliation of public expo- 
sure and scandal. As a result, the family acquired a considerable 

reputation. 

Looking expectantly toward the fast increase in drug trade in 
America, the British could not afford to leave their leading cutout 
in such an exposed and precarious position. Nor could they sim- 
ply dispose of the Bronfmans after Prohibition. The family had 
become irreplaceable due to its in-depth control over the syndi- 
cate. Yet, they would be a liability if they continued to work as 
openly with their distributors in narcotics trafficking as they did 

running Prohibition. 

The problem was resolved by bringing the Bronfmans into the 
lower rungs of the Hofjuden caste. Almost overnight, the Roth- 
schilds. Montef iores, de Hirsches. et al. took "Mr. Sam," the 
crime czar of North America, and transformed him into a rising 
star of the Canadian Zionist movement. 



i 
i 



a" 
A. 






f 

f. 






i h 






* In 1934, Mr, Sam was given his first "respectable post" as 
chairman of the National Jewish People's Relief Committee 
(Canada). 

* By 1939 he had been appointed head of Baron de Hirsch's Jew- 
ish Colonization Association, the same Association that had 
brought Yechiel to Canada. 

* In the same year, the Canadian Pacific Corporation invited 
Mr. Sam to establish a new refugee organization for Eastern 
European Jews. 

* Within five years, the prince of crime was transformed by the 
good grace of His Majesty's oligarchists into a Zionist "philan- 
thropist." One post followed after another. He became head of 
the Canadian Jewish Committee, replacing Lyon Cohen, the son 
of Lazarus Cohen, the founder of the Jewish Colonialization Asso- 
ciation and the official agent of the de Hirsch family interests- 
After World War II, Mr. Sam established the National Confer- 
ence of Israeli and Jewish Rehabilitation, using his considerable 
smuggling skills to run guns to the Haganah. 

Similar posts were awarded to the other Bronfmans. Allan 
Bronfman was named president of the Zionist Organization of 
Canada, a member of the board of trustees of the Federation of 
Jewish Philanthropists and of the national council of the Cana- 
dian Jewish Congress. Abe Bronfman was posted to the Joint Dis- 
tribution Committee and also to the national council of the Cana- 
dian Jewish Congress. 

Finally, in 1969 the Bronfmans were given the highest reward 
issued by Her Majesty. Sam was made a Knight of Grace of the 
Most Venerable Order of St. John of Jerusalem — Her Majesty's 
official chivalric order. His brother Allan and his son Charles 
were appointed to the highest rank, Knight of Justice of the Or- 
der. These appointments are emphatically not ceremonial, but 
are only bestowed on those who have carried out the most 
dangerous and fruitful missions for the British Crown. 

The Bronfmans' time had truly come, Sam's children were wel- 
comed into the Hofjuden elite by intermarriage. Minda married 
Baron Alain de Gunzberg, himself an extension of the Rothschild 
family tree. De Gunzberg sits on the board of Seagram, Is manag- 
ing director of the Banque Louis Dreyfuss, and controls the Selig- 



I 



282 



DOPE, INC. 



ft 



! ■ 



ORGANIZED CHIME 



283 



man- Louis Hirsch investment house which has close Rothschild 
ties. Edgar Bronfman's first marriage was to Ann Loeb, bringing 
him instantly into a command position within the Wall Street 
house of Loeb, Rhoades, and Co. While taking over the Seagram 
main branch in New York, Edgar's marriage clinched the tie to 
Our Crowd that had begun during Prohibition. His second mar- 
riage, to Lady Caroline Townshend, as we have seen, was 
unsuccessful. Phyllis Bronfman married Jean Lambert of the 
Belgian banking and mining interests. 

Yet, despite their mountains of wealth, despite their hard-won 
entry into the realms of good breeding, it would be a mistake to 
think the Bronfman s were a power in their own right. When it 
comes to the question of control, they are treated as if the money 
were not their own. 

Take, for example, the case of "Triiec," the holding company 
through which the Bronfman brothers ostensibly run their 
various corporations, including Seagram. Since it was formed in 
I960, the Bronfmans have never held a majority position within 
Trizec! Trizec is run by Eagle Star Ltd. of London, a holding 
company whose directors have been described by one author as 
"the most notable of the British aristocrats." 08) Evelyn de 
Rothschild, the earls and dukes who control Lloyds of London and 
other hanking and insurance firms, and Leading lights of British 
intelligence such as Sir Kenneth Strong and Sir Kenneth Keith all 
converge on the board of Eagle Star. (See Part II, Section 8.) This 
extraordinary company in turn owns English Property Corp. Ltd. 
— whose principal individual shareholder Laurie Marsh has 
gained notoriety in Britain as the "Prince of Pornography" for 
his ownership of the majority of pornographic movie theaters, 
massage parlors, and "red light district" real estate in London. 
09) English Property Corp. Ltd. owns majority holdings in 
Trizec. 

Neither are the brains behind the Bronfman empire situated 
between the ears of members of the Bronfman family. The 
source lies elsewhere — in the family's law firm of Phillips, 
Bloomfield, Vineberg, and Goodman (now Phillips and 
Vineberg) . 

The personage of family arbiter and attorney Lazarus Phillips, 



£ 









tn particular, was a constant sore to Mr. Sam. Born into the upper 
crust of the Zionist elite, Lazarus Phillips succeeded in gaining 
all the yeckus — publicly recognized respect — that Mr. Sam 
could never seem to win. Phillips was a holder of the Order of the 
British Empire, a senator in the Canadian Congress, a member 
of the board of directors of the Royal Bank of Canada, invited into 
the exclusive Mount Royal Club as a member, and was a power- 
broker for the Liberal Party. 

But without Phillips the Bronfman family empire could not 
survive. It is likely that through him the Bronfmans received the 
input of cash that allowed them to proceed steadily from boot- 
legging to the legitimate bigtime. Certainly it was Phillips who 
unfroze enough funds under export control from the grip of the 
Bank of Canada to finance Seagram's wartime expansion into the 
United States. As the final judge in all family matters — legal and 
otherwise — Phillips has sat on the board of Seagram since 1940 
and on every other company and philanthropic front nominally 
run by Mr. Sam. He is still the codircctor of Trizec and the other 
major Bronfman holding company Edper (named after Edgar 
and Peter Bronfman). Phillips is also the expert who managed to 
get the Bronfmans off every legal hook they ever got caught 
on. (20) 

Phillip F. Vineberg is part of the Vineberg family of Abraham 
Moses Vineberg, chairman of the Moses Vineberg Investments 
firm and the de Hirsch Institute, Cochairman of all the Bronfman 
holding companies, Vineberg runs the Canadian Israeli Bond 
Drives and the Canadian Council of Christians and Jews. He is 
also a member of the Hofjuden elite's Montef iore Club. 

Major Louis Mortimer Bloomfield, also of the firm Phillips, 
Vineberg. and Bloomfield, is however, without a doubt the most 
colorful of the Bronfman brains-behind-the-scenes and this may 
explain why his name was left out of Peter Newman's 1H7R book 
The Bronfman Dynasty (rumored to have been commissioned 
by the Bronfmans themselves). In addition to his position up to 
the late 1960s as a Bronfman family lawyer, Bloomfield remains 
a close banking associate. The Major's Zionist activities are 
numerous; he is involved in a nest of corporations including the 
Israeli Continental Company, he is chairman of the Canadian 



286 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



267 



describes the relationship between Obront and Mitchell Bronf- 
man as "almost a brotherly relationship." (25) 

This relationship extends into illegal activities in which 
they have mutually or jointly indulged . , . the special kinds 
of favors they did for each other and the resulting 
advantages of each in the fields of loan sharking, 
gambling, illegal betting, securities, tax evasion and cor- 
ruption. (26) 

Everything was on a strictly "friendly basis/' claims Mitchell. 

Obront first came to the attention of the authorities after two of 
his Quebec nightclubs used as hangouts for Montreal's under- 
world were raided. It was revealed that Mitchell's friend was one 
of Montreal's top movers of dirty money from narcotics, prosti- 
tution, and loansharking. 

Together with Willie, Mitchell Bronfman is a minority partner 
in the Pagoda North, a Miami restaurant that has been identified 
by U.S. and Canadian law enforcement agencies as the head- 
quarters for a continentwide illegal bookmaking syndicate run by 

Vito Genovese. 

Willie Obront was convicted in 1978 of "tax evasion'* and 
put behind bars. Mitchell Bronfman narrowly averted the same 

fate. 
Another one of Mitchell Bronfman's business partners is 

Sidney Rosen, who was also arrested and convicted in 1975 for 
looting 35 Canadian and American companies of $7 million 
through an asset-stripping clearinghouse called Value Trend 
Holding Company- Value Trend in turn laundered these stolen as- 
sets, along with other dirty revenues from illegal gambling, ex- 
tortion and narcotics, through Corporate Bank and Trust Com- 
pany of Freeport, Grand Bahamas and Flendon Ltd., of the same 
address. Both companies are jointly owned by Rosen and Mitch' 
ell Bronfman through another holding company called the 
"Milton Group." When Rosen went off to jail (again leaving 
Mitchell Bronfman scot free), the $7 million passed unscathed 
into offshore accounts in Barclays Bank in Freeport. (21) 
But the two. major corporations that Mitchell operates out of 



:•■ 



■ ■-. 



> 






■ 

I 






•i 



are the mysterious "Securcx" and "Execaire Aviation." The 
former was disbanded in 1977 by Quebec Provincial Justice 
Minister Delard. While the Official Secrets Act has kept the 
reasons behind this hidden, it can be stated with reasonable 
certainty that Mitchell Bronfman and the company were dis- 
covered to be up to their necks in the wave of FLQ (Front pour la 
Liberation du Quebec) terrorism that had plagued the province 
since 1970 — not to mention the narcotics trade. 

The two directors of Securex at the time of its banning were 
Donald McCleary and Gilles Brunet, formerly RCMP sergeants 
in charge of the G-4 (Secret Service Division) of the Mountics. 
Both were fired from the Service in 1972 when it was discovered 
that they were close associates of Mitchell Bronfman. (28) 
McCleary and Brunei were in charge of the counterterror efforts 
in 1970 when the FLQ kidnapped a provincial official and a 
British government officer, an affair which led to the declaration 
of a state of emergency. The emergency period was used as a 
pretext to go after the French Canadian networks that had been 
built up by de Gaulle in conjunction with the Vatican to liberate 
Quebec from British colonial status. 

In point of fact, the FLQ was itself funded by Bronfman family 
networks as an extension of earlier efforts to assassinate French 
President de Gaulle (the story will be told below). The Bronf- 
mans' FLQ option was the North American version of the British 
Special Air Service's control over both the Provisional Wing of 
the Irish Republican Army and the British Army's counterterror 

efforts. 

Securex advertises itself as a security "consulting firm 
specializing in anti-terrorism. anti-kidnapping t and guerrilla 
warfare training." (29) All things considered, it would have to be 
regarded as both a semi-official covert branch of British intelli- 
gence in Canada and as a bridge to the criminal underworld. 

Us affiliated Execairc Aviation emerges as yet another 
scarcely concealed front for crime. Execaire is the largest 
private charter airline service in Canada specializing in jet 
service for business executives . . . and narcotics. 

Is Mitchell Bronfman just the black sheep in the Bronfman 
family? It is unlikely. Cemp, the Bronfman family trust, signed a 



i. 



i 



288 



DOPE, INC. 



guarantee for part of Execaire*s line of credit at the Bank of 
Montreal. 

Nevertheless, the high publicity the Bronfmans have received 
over the years for such exploits as Mitchell's has prevented the 
family from receiving that degree of respectability they have 
always coveted. In the 1950s Mr. Sam looked across the fence at 
the status of his friend Senator Jacob Javits and decided that he 
would buy the ultimate title to confer respectability to his name: 
he sought to become a Senator of the Canadian Congress. All told, 
he spent $1.2 million in bribes. The Liberals took his money but 
wouldn't give him a seat. The Bronfman name was still too dirty 
to be permitted in the ranks of Canadian politics. 

In this regard, the Kennedy family fared much better. 



The Kennedys: 

Organized Crime 

in the Government 



There are some facts in the mind of the American public that 
hint at the reality behind the "Kennedy look" : Ted's Chappaquid- 
dick disaster, Judith Exner Campbell's revelations that Chicago 
mobster Sam Giancana had given her to Jack, and the well- 
known stories of Papa Joe's bootlegging days. The suspicions are 
there but Americans aren't really aur© what the Kennedys are: 
after all. if they're so dirty, how do they stay so clean? 

Dope, Incorporated supplies the answer. The Kennedys are 
clean because, beginning with Papa Joe, they were flea-dipped, 
scrubbed, and polished by the British to be the respectable front 
for organized crime. Whether or not a Kennedy crosses the 
British Crown in terms of policy — as Jack Kennedy did in 1963 — 
docs not alter the fundamental content of the political machine 
that gives the Kennedy dynasty its power. The Kennedy machine 
is organized crime in government. 

If Ted Kennedy becomes President in 1980, whom will he owe 
debts to? The same people who pay for him now. At the top of the 
list of contributors to Kennedy's 1976 senatorial campaign 
released by the Federal Elections Commission is one Joseph 
Linsey. 0) A Massachusetts bootlegger who maintains con- 



289 



290 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



291 



nections to Meyer Lansky from the 1930s, Linsey sits on the board 
of International Airport Hotel Systems Inc., a Miami-based 
company whose board also includes Lansky. Hotel Systems is 
also connected to Resorts International, a firm we will soon hear 
more of. FBI wiretaps showed recently that Linsey also has 
dealings with Raymond Patriarcha, the titular godfather of New 
England narcotics trafficking. (2) Patriarcha is a partner of the 
Jacobs family (whom we will also encounter later) in several 
business ventures, including a multimillion dollar a year slot 
machine company in St. Louis. Although sentenced to jail for 
murder. Patriarcha was released over four years ago when 
doctors "discovered he was suffering from a case of terminal 
cancer" from which he presumably still suffers. 

Among the business enterprises of Kennedy financier Joseph 
Linsey are two liquor distributing firms. Crown and Whitehall, 
and a dogracing track in Tauton, Massachusetts. Whitehall's 
chief "salesman" Mike Rocco was described by the McClellan 
Committee hearings on organized crime, in which both John and 
Robert Kennedy participated, as a "collection man for the 
mob." (3) Linsey s chief political -lobbyist, Hirsch Freed, is a 
senior partner in the Law firm of Brown, Rudnick, Freed, Gesmar 
and sits on the board of the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of 
Boston. Freed and all of his law partners are generous donors to 
the Kennedy campaign fund. (4) 

It is the character of Kennedy's friends rather than his own low 
personal standard of morality that explains why as a leader of 
the powerful Senate Judiciary Committee he has come forward 
as the leading sponsor of federal legalization of marijuana and 
why he has given his approval to decriminalization of heroin "for 
experimental purposes." The job of the Kennedy dynasty is to 
usher in British dope and the criminals who distribute it — 
through the front door. 



The rise to power 



«■ 



■ 



■p 



^ 



Papa Joe Kennedy did not have to struggle iike the Rronfmans 
did to make their name and money in the world of crime — he 



was born into il. Joe's father P. J. Kennedy was one of the shanty- 
town mobsters of late 19th century Boston. 

P. J. began his rise to fortune as a tavern keeper who bought 
his way into the corrupt Democratic Party machine (a machine 
that, like the Jacob Astor-Aaron Burr power system in New York, 
had its roots in opium trafficking) . Once he had obtained a seat 
on the ward's Democratic Committee at the age of 26, V, J. gave 
up his tavern and went into the more lucrative wholesale liquor 
business. Two years later in 1886 he began the first of five 
consecutive terms in the Massachusetts State Legislature. By 
1896. he was part of the triumvirate of Kennedy-Donovan-Cor- 
bett, known as the Board of Strategy, which controlled the Demo- 
cratic organization in Boston. But it was common knowledge that 
the secret to P. J. Kennedy's political success was his control of 
the local crime ring, the "McGuJre Gang." (5) 

Joe Kennedy's mother sadly recognized that with her husband, 
her social pretensions could never be realized for herself. 
Kennedy's public image was so filthy that he could not even 
qualify for entry into the "High Irish" social circles of Boston, let 
along the Brahmin elite centered around the opium smuggling 
Perkins family. She set her hopes on her children. It was Joe 
Kennedy's marriage into the Fitzgerald family (over the 
vehement protests of his father-in-law, Boston's High Irish 
Mayor "Honey" Fitzgerald) that launched the Kennedy family 
into high society. 

Nevertheless, when Joe Kennedy went to Harvard he was 
snubbed and ridiculed by his Brahmin classmates, who never 
missed a chance to remind him of his family's seedy history. 
Joseph bitterly referred time and again to his rejection by the 
exclusive "final clubs,*' Harvard's most desired status 
symbol. (6) 

After World War I, Kennedy was employed by Galen Stone, a 
partner in the prestigious Hayden, Stone and Co., a Boston Hat 
Street investment house with ties to the Rothschilds. While there, 
he made his first contacts with the British aristocracy. Kennedy 
got wind that one of Hayden, Stone's clients, the British company 
of Robertson-Cole Pictures, was in the throes of a credit squeeze. 
The ambitious Irishman went to London to seek the purchase of 



292 



DOPE, iNC. 



the company's U.S. distribution affiliate, the Film Booking Com- 
pany. He was turned down flat. Within a month, however, Lord 
Inverforth arrived in Boston to take Kennedy up on the offer. 
Through a subsequent merger with Ideal Films Ltd. Kennedy 
founded what was described at the time as the "first genuinely 
reciprocal exchange of production and distribution facilities 
between British and American companies." (7) Kennedy's joint 
ventures with the British soon produced RKO studios, ushering in 
British financial and cultural domination of Hollywood. 

Kennedy's film ventures were also noteworthy for another 
reason. Lord Inverforth later showed up during World War II 
working closely with British Secret Intelligence Services chief 
William Stephenson ("Intrepid"). (8) The Robertson-Cole deal 
was Kennedy's first contact with Britain's aristocratic high 
command. 

In 1929, Kennedy joined with Blair and Co., a firm operated by 
Elisha Walker, later of Kuhn, Loeb, and Jacques Monnet, to bid 
for control of A. P. Giannini's Transamcrican Co., the controlling 
company for the Bank of America. The attempt failed, but 
Kennedy gained another invaluable contact. Jacques Monnet had 
come to North America to represent his family's liquor business. 
Monnet et Cie,, in dealings with the Hudson's Bay Company. In the 
period that Kennedy was working with Blair and Co., Monnet was 
traveling to Shanghai on a financial mission for the League of 
Nations. Since the delegation came on the invitation of notorious 
opium dealer T.V. Soong, and given Monnet's associations with 
the Hudson's Bay, it is likely that more was on the agenda than 
the financing of Chinese railroads. . 

Papa Joe also had business liaisons with the seamier side of the 
illegal distribution market. During his own bootlegging days in 
Prohibition, Kennedy entered into a coalition with Newark's 
Reinfeld Syndicate, which it will be recalled was SO percent 
owned by the Bronfman gang. Joe retained his business dealings 
with the syndicate thugs all the way until 1946. At that time, in 
preparation for the launching of his sons' political careers, Joe 

sold his liquor company, Somerset Importers Ltd., for $8 million 
to the "Renficld Importers" — a revised version of the Reinfeld 
Syndicate. (9) 



■ 
j 

■:■ 



■. " ■ 



■ i 



i 



$ 



■I 









ORGANIZED CRIME 



As the end of Prohibition approached, Kennedy again turned to 
London where Winston Churchill personally approved the 
grant to Joe of the British distillers' franchise for the 
American market. Through Kennedy's Somerset Importers Ltd. 
and Renfield Importers, Kennedy marketed De war's scotch, 
Gordon's gin, Ron Rico rum, andHaig andHaig. (10) 

But as Papa Joe made clear early in the game, he was not in it 
for the money. His goal was to build a political dynasty, and his 
wife produced nine children in succession to get it going. 
Churchill's nod of approval and the cash flow accompanying it 
signalled that the British were ready to take advantage of Joe 
Kennedy's political ambitions. 

Kennedy acknowledged the deal by placing his accumulated 
fortune in the hands of one of the inner circle of London finance: 
Lazard Brothers Ltd. Andre Meyer, head of the U.S. branch of 
that house, became the manager of the Kennedy Estates. Lazard 
Brothers Ltd. is owned by Viscount Cowdray (Weetman John 
Churchill Pearson) , cousin of Winston Churchill. 

In 1933, Kennedy was appointed by President Franklin Roose- 
velt to head the new Securities Exchange Commission. 
Kennedy's earlier association with the London banking circles 
had put him in the inside track to conduct a flurry of stock 
speculation on the eve of the 1929 stock market crash and walk 
away from it all with a pocket full of cash. When the SEC was 
created to regulate the market, Roosevelt returned Kennedy's 
1932 favor of swinging the Boston Democratic machine behind 
the FDR candidacy at the 1932 nominating convention. 

In 1936. FDR appointed Kennedy U.S. ambassador to Great 
Britain, a post Kennedy wanted more than life itself. As Joe's 
official biographer explained. "The old American aristocracy, 
with its Anglophilic leanings— the aristocrats that had rejected 
Kennedy at Harvard — regarded the post as the nation's highest 
social office." (11) Kennedy had at last succeeded in giving the 
Boston Brahmins a kick in the teeth. Once in London, the Royal 
Family further obliged the funny Irishman by posing with his 

family in full regalia for the newspapers, 

Kennedy quickly attached himself to the most pro-Nazi British 
aristocrats centered around Lady Astor's Cliveden Set where 



294 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CHIME 



295 



Round Table figures such as Lazard Brothers' Lord Robert 
Brand, the Marquess of Lothian, Fabian George Bernard Shaw, 
and the opium-trading Sassoon family congregated to dictate 
Britain's appeasement policy for the British Foreign Office. 

Kennedy's antics in Britain soon got back to President Roose- 
velt who, by the outbreak of World War 13, had developed a fairly 
accurate view of Britain's imperial designs. Kennedy's notoriety 
as a Nazi supporter — like his father's earlier underworld career 
— could not be covered over by even the most sympathetic 
biographer. Thus, David E. Koskoff in his commissioned 
biography of Joe Kennedy reported the following : 

Kennedy had become intensely Anglophilic: "Indeed there 
are unfortunate signs that Kennedy is going by way of 
Page." They reported that he was one of the prime exhibits 
of Cliveden . . . that he was a partisan of England and 
should be watched carefully. , . . 

From the beginning of the Ambassador's career to the end. 
the spectre of Walter Hines Page haunted Joseph Kennedy. 
From his position as Ambassador to England, Anglophile 
Page had literally conspired with the British to bring 
America into World War 1. . . . Kennedy always resented 
the fact that his name was always linked with Page. . . . 
Even Roosevelt said before the outbreak of war, "He's 
more British than Walter Hines Page/' (12) 

Kennedy's unswerving loyalty to the British monarchy was 
rewarded ; his daughter, Kathleen Kennedy, the sister of John, 
Robert, and Edward, married William Cavendish, the Marquess 
of Harrington. Hartington was the son and heir to the 10th Duke of 
Devonshire and his wife. Lady Mary Alice Cecil (daughter of the 
4th Marquess of Salisbury), the Dutchess of Devonshire. 

tn the hierarchy of the British nobility, the dukes are the 
highest rank of royalty, taking second place only to the monarchy 
itself. The Duke of Devonshire is at the center of the interlocking 
families of the Cecils, Salisbury^, and Macmillans who have run 
British politics since the Glorious Revolution. 



■•■ 






% 






Joseph Kennedy repeated the theme many times r "If Kathleen 
and her husband were living, I'd be the father of the Duchess of 
Devonshire (first Lady-in-Waiting to the Queen) and the father- 
in-law of the head of all the Masons in the world." (13) Later, his 
son John would marry Jacqueline Bouvicr, whose sister Lee 
Radziwill married Prince Stanislaus Radziwill. a member of the 
Polish nobility who traces his titles back over 500 years. The 
Radziwill family, which resides in England, established the 
Order of St. John of Jerusalem in Poland in 1610 and was instru- 
mental in transplanting the Order into the United States in the 
early 20th century. While serving as ambassador in Britain, 
Joseph Kennedy was made an initiate in His Majesty's Most 
Venerable Order of St John of Jerusalem. 

Despite Joseph Kennedy's eventual unceremonious recall from 
the Court of St. James at the beginning of World War 11, the elder 
Kennedy had succeeded brilliantly in restoring his tarnished 
reputation. During his sojourn in Britain, he turned over his sons 
to the British Round Table for a "proper" education. Joseph 
Kennedy, Jr. and John F. Kennedy were trained at the London 
School of Economics, an institution founded by the Fabian 
Society dedicated to training and recruiting foreign cadre as 
future British agents within government, business, media, and 
educational posts in their respective countries. The Kennedy 
brothers were trained by Fabian Society Executive member 
Harold Laski. 

At Harvard, an the Kennedys' return to the United States, 
further tutoring for son John was secured from Sir John Wheeler- 
Bennett, the founder and head of the research division of the 
Royal Institute of International Affairs. Wheeler-Bennett denies 
that he was the writer of Kennedy's Harvard master's thesis, 
later published in book form as Why England Slept — an apologia 
for the Cliveden Set's and his father's sympathies for Hitler. (14) 

There is little doubt that Wheeler-Bennett was aware that he 
had been entrusted with the training of Britain's future political 
kingpins in the United States. As he recalls: 

I was invited one evening to dine informally at the 
American embassy. We were a small party, not more than 




DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CHIME 



297 



ten, as 1 recall, and the three eldest Kennedy sons sat in a 
row on the far side of the table to myself. . - . "I'll tell you 
about these boys," said the Ambassador to me in his 
rasping nasal voice, as if they weren't there at all. 
"There's young Joe> he's going to be President of the 
United States. And there's Jack, he's going to be a univer- 
sity president: and there's Bobby (tapping his nose in a 
cunning manner), he's the lawyer." 05) 

Why the British killed Kennedy 

When John F. Kennedy became President of the United States 
in 1960, it is reported that Andre Meyer of Lazard Brothers Ltd. 
went around Europe introducing himself as "the real President." 
Whether the story is true or not, it is the case that the Court of St. 
James had at least temporarily seized control of the Oval Office. 

So had organized crime. The Kennedy machine moved into the 
Justice Department, specifically Robert Kennedy's Organized 
Crime Strike Force/ The Organized Crime Drive, as it was called, 
was a highly irregular unit, even according to its nominal chief, 
Ed Silberling. The section was in fact run by non-lawyer Walter 
Sheridan, a former FBI man who had worked as Chief of the 
Counterintelligence Section, Special Operations Division, Office 
of Security, and the National Security Agency. It was Sheridan 
who had the ear of Robert Kennedy, often as much as three times 
a day. 06) 

According to Victor Navasky's Kennedy Justice, the Sheridan 
crew "had free access to the files of the McClellan Committee. It 
was in touch with grand juries throughout the country. It had an 
undercover air of mystery about it. Its modus operandi was cloak 
and dagger. . . Its relations with the FBI were highly irregular in 
that it received little or no cooperation from the top, yet 
Sheridan, an ex-FBI man, had a degree of line cooperation in the 
field that was, in some respects, unparalleled. He actually 
coordinated FBI agents with his own men — told them where to 
go when, and they went. 

"Unlike every other unit of the Justice Department, which is 






■- 



* 



.■ 

r. 
* 



r 



k 



organized around subject areas of responsibility," reports 
Navasky, "the Sheridan unit's raison d'etre seemed to be not a 
subject area but a target: Jimmy Hoffa." {17) 

If Kennedy himself was obsessed with getting Hoffa, the 
machine behind him found the campaign a convenient ruse for 
three reasons. First, it badly damaged the biggest and strongest 
trade union in the country, which had consistently used its power 
to press for industrial growth. Second, the publicity it engendered 
was a good diversion. And third, it was a good cover for going 
after local Mafiosi who might object to a tightened drug 
syndicate and the rise of the new black mafia to service the cities. 
The fanfare around the Valachi revelations served the same 
purpose. 

A look at the ensuing careers of the Kennedy crimefighters 
underlines the point. 

*Henry Peterson of the Organized Crime and Racketeering 
Division joined Max Jacobs's Emprise Corporation, a money- 
Laundering outfit examined in Section 4. 

*His boss William Hundley and Robert Peloquin of the 
Criminal Division left Justice, formed their own law firm, and 
now sit on the board of International Intelligence Ontertel), 
Meyer Lansky's crime clearinghouse (see Section 3). 

* Stanley Mills, head of the Kennedy Anti-Trust Division, 

became general counsel for Max Jacobs's Sportsystems. 

^William 0. Bittman, prosecutor for the Justice Department 
against Hoffa, joined the board of Sportsystems. 

* Daniel Holloman and Thomas Kennedy of the Organized 
Crime Division Joined the same board. 

* Horace Webb of the department's Public Informational 
Services Division is the public relations man for Sportsystems. 

* Thomas J. Mekeon, member of the Organized Crime Strike 
Force in Detroit, is assistant general counsel and vice-president 
of Intertel. 

While Sheridan's "Terrible Twenty" burned the small fry, 
Meyer Lansky and Max Jacobs went untouched. Lansky's 
biographer, Hank Messick, could even report that "Lansky could 
deplore the loss uf Newport and Hut Springs, but the attack on La 
Cosa Nostra caused him no loss of sleep. Instead, from I960 to 



* 



41 



1 



^■. 



298 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRiME 



299 



1965, he succeeded in keeping his name completely out of the 
newspapers. That five-year period was for Lansky one of the 
mostactive, and profitable, eras he had known." (18) 

DOUBLE-CROSS 
Meanwhile, in the White House John Kennedy was being 
advised by the higher echelons of the same network that had 
invaded the Justice Department. Almost simultaneously with 
Kennedy's inauguration, Harold Macmillan moved into 1U 
Downing Street. Macmillan was himself part of the extended 
Devonshire family into which Kennedy's sister Kathleen had 
married. His Canada-based pulp and paper company, MacMiilan 
Bloedel, as noted, was a component of the British Columbia drug- 
smug sling apparat. (29 ) 

Macmillan' s newly appointed ambassador to the United States, 
David Ormsby-Gore < later Lord Harlech), was also a distant in- 
law of the President through the Cecil family. Ormsby-Gore had 
been a close friend of JFK's since their days together at the 
London School of Economics. The British ambassador had daily 
access to the President. Re was the fourth member of Kennedy's 
inner policy-making core. "ExComm," along with Robert 
Kennedy and the Anglophile National Security advisor McGeorge 
Bundy (also a Harvard protege of the Round Table's William 
Yandell Elliott). During the Cuban Missile Crisis, documents 
show that Ormsby-Gore and Macmillan made most of the 
minutc-to-minute decisions at the point that the United States 
was on the brink of nuclear war. 

Best estimates have it that up through the winter of 1962-63, 
British directives to the White House, transmitted through 
Ormsby-Gore, were carried out with only minor points of 
difference. That special relationship began to show signs of 
deterioration during early 1963. Policy differences between the 
Kennedy and the Macmillan governments began to surface, as 
the U.S. President took a series of initiatives toward detente 

with the Soviet Union and Cuba. (20) 

The diaries of Macmillan testify that Kennedy had to be in- 
tensely armtwisted at the famous Nassau summit in spring 1963 
before he would agree to turn over the Polaris missile program 



■ 

i 



V 



to the British. (21) That move precipitated French President 
Charles de Gaulle's vehement denunciation of the Anglo- 
American violation of Ihe Atlantic Charter, followed by France's 
withdrawal from NATO. 

A combination of factors was operating on Kennedy. Foremost 
among them was Papa Joe. Individuals, interviewed by the 
authors, who knew Joe Kennedy intimately during the 1920s 
report that he cherished a deep hatred for the British and the 
Anglophile society of Boston that had humiliated him ; however, 
the same individuals report, Kennedy had made a decision that if 
he was going to make it, he would have to prove his usefulness to 
the British. With John Kennedy's accession to the Presidency, 
Joe Kennedy's dream of using the British to build a sufficient 
power base for himself was a reality. No astute political observer 
during the 1960s could ignore the possibility of a "Kennedy 
dynasty** installed in the White House for several uninterrupted 
decades. 

During the spring and summer months of 1963, JFK began 
reversing previous policies. Plans were being prepared to 
devolve U.S. presence in Southeast Asia. Detente discussions 
were opened up with the Soviet Union; in the weeks prior to his 
assassination, Kennedy even sent a secret emissary to Havana to 
open up talks with Fidel Castro. The Kennedys were showing 
signs of bucking the machine that had put them in power. The 
British had him killed. To use the language of a Grade-B movie, 
"Kennedy tried to double-cross the syndicate and he got iced." 

It is reported by Kennedy biographer Koskoff that upon JFK's 
death, Lord Beaverbrook (whom we shall encounter in regard to 
the International Assassination Bureau) sent a scarcely veiled 
warning to Joe Kennedy: 

Perhaps he (Joe Kennedy— ed.) was a little comforted by 
the kind note that his dear friend Lord Beaverbrook sent to 
Rose: "May Joe find solace. . . in the assurance that Bobby 
will repeat J ack's career." (22) 

When Robert Kennedy refused to back off from the track of his 
brother's assassins and began to prepare his own campaign for 



1 



300 



DOPE, INC 



the Presidency, he too was assassinated on British orders. 

Playing by the rules of the game is Ted Kennedy's insurance 
policy. That's what makes him the foremost proponent of dope 
decriminalization; that's what makes him today's fronlrunner 
for organized crime; that's what makes him the collaborator of 
the assassins of his brothers. 



V 
;.• 

'■■ 
■." 

V 



: 

: 



-" 



■':• 



3 



Britain's Assassination 
Bureau: Permindex 



-• 



■■;■ 
v. 



Following the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in 
Dallas on November 22, 1963, New Orleans District Attorney 
James Garrison launched an investigation that led him to the 
doorsteps of an obscure* Montreal-based corporation called 
Permindex, headed by the Bronfman family's attorney. Major 
Louis Mortimer Bloomfield. One of the directors of BLoomfield's 
ostensibly small international trading company, Col. Clay Shaw 
of New Orleans, was Garrison's chief suspect in the Kennedy 
murder. Shaw ran the World Trade Mart in New Orleans, a 
subsidiary of Permindex that was described by a former Shaw 
associate (1) as a front for Mafia drug-running and organized 
crime activity centered in the Caribbean. 

Shaw was the financial backer and controller of Lee Harvey 
Oswald during his lengthy stays in New Orleans, Garrison had 
established, and the District Attorney also had evidence that 
Shaw had been the safehouse channel out of the country (into 
ftaly) for several unidentified persons believed to have been the 
real "triggers" in the Kennedy assassination. (2) 



i 



301 



302 



DOPE, INC. 



James Earl Ray. the "palsy" in the 1968 assassination of 
Martin Luther King in Memphis, was also a frequent visitor to 
Shaw's New Orleans' World Trade Mart during the month before 
King's murder. Ray escaped via Canada to London where he was 
traced and captured a month after King died. (3) 

After more than a half dozen mysterious deaths of key 
witnesses against Permindex and a national smear campaign 
against Garrison run by Kennedy Justice Department 
troubleshooter Walter Sheridan, the New Orleans investigation 
into Permindex was terminated, and the entire affair quickly 
faded into obscurity. 

After an estimated 30 to 40 aborted assassination attempts 
against French President General Charles de Gaulle during the 
19fi0s, the French intelligence bureau, SDECE, exposed the same 
Permindex as the financier and controller of the OAS (Secret 
Army Organization) death squads. (4) SDECE gathered re arris 
of evidence showing that Permindex bad been the recipient of 
funds laundered into Geneva and Basel through Zionist 
"charitahle organizations" and Israeli intelligence fronts such as 
the Bank Hapoalim of Histadrut, the Israeli trade union 
movement and Socialist International affiliate. These funds had 
been channeled into the OAS as well as into the neo-Nazi terrorist 
groups in West Germany and Italy. 

De Gaulle issued vociferous personal protests to the Swiss and 
Italian governments. As a result. Permindex was forced to shut 
down its offices in those countries and move to a more friendly 
location, Johannesburg, South Africa. (5) The Paris-based 
Western European branch headquarters of Israel's foreign 
intelligence service, the Mossad, was kicked out of France and 
reestablished its operations in Belgium and the Netherlands. 

In 1970, the prestigious Italian newsweekly Panorama 
published an account of the mysterious death of Italian Oil 
Minister Enrico Mattei in an October 1962 plane crash on his way 

to a historic economic summit in Africa. (6) Mattel's plane was 
sabotaged during a contrived unscheduled stopover at an obscure 
airport in Sicily. Forty-eight hours before the crash. New Orleans 




& 



r 
3 



• * 
■■■■ 
■;■■ . 

■■■ 



•:■■■ 



■f 



.-■" 



V 

I 



t 



I* 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



303 



mobster and Permindex associate Carlos Marcello had been 
identified by local police in Sicily as the mysterious American 
who showed up at the airport while a four-man team was 
tampering with Mattel's plane. Marcello owned a private fleet of 
chartered jets called the United Air Taxi Service, which shared 
its staff of pilots and mechanics with Permindex. One such 
"shared employee." David Ferrie, was also a pilot for Marcello 
and Clay Shaw. Ferrie was found murdered days after he was 
subpoenaed to testify before Garrison's grand jury on the 
Kennedy killing. (7) 

Within months of the April 1378 kidnapping and murder of 
former Italian President Aldo Moro, the Italian Carabinieri were 
in hot pursuit of evidence firmly implicating Italian Jewish 
banker George Mantello <aka George Mandel) in the affair. (8) It 
was believed that Mantello' s Rome villa had been the first 
safe ho use where Moro was brought after his abduction by the 
Red Brigades. Weapons found in a Carabinieri raid of Mantello's 
villa turned out to match the weapon used to kill Moro as well as 
that used in the 1977 Baader-Meinhof gang kidnapping-murder of 
West German industrialist Hanns Martin Schleyer. An agent of 
the Black Guelph House of Savoy (the pretenders to the throne of 
Italy), Mantello is a board member of a Permindex subsidiary, 
Centro Mondiale Commerciale (CMC). Mantello's Swiss holding 
company, Capocetto, was exposed by de Gaulle's SDECE as a 
conduit for Histadrut funds into Permindex. (9) 

Who runs Permindex? 

Sixteen years have passed since Permindex conducted its first 
known' assassination deployment. Despite all the accumulated 
evidence, none of the principals has been brought to justice; 
Permindex today is one of the best kept secrets in the world. 

What is Permindex? Who ace the powerful forces protecting 
this nest of assassins from prosecution for crimes of high treason 
against no fewer than three sovereign states? As we shall soon 
learn, Permindex is a top-secret branch of one of the most 



304 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



305 



sophisticated and well-financed intelligence agencies in the 
world and a convergence point for every filthy network that we 
have met so far — from the British Far East banking and 
shipping magnates who run the dope trade at the top to the 
gutters where Mafiosi, neo-Nazis, and the Order of Zion function 
as retailers for Dope. Incorporated. 

The starting point to unravel the story behind this International 
Assassination Bureau is the office of the chairman of its board. 
The founder, president, and majority (50 percent) shareholder 
in Perm index since its incorporation in Montreal in 1958-59 is 
Major Louis Mortimer Bloomfield. 

Bioomf ield is a man of many hats. He was a founding partner of 
the prestigious Hofjuden law firm of Phillips, Vineberg, 
Bloomfield and Goodman, the firm that represents and controls 
the Bronfman family holdings. Bloomfield's name was formally 
removed from the film's letterhead in 1968 after the de Gaulle 
exposures of his Permindex assassination bureau threatened to 
create an embarrassment. Such cosmetic gestures, however, 
have little significance in the murky world of Canadian politics 
where the most prestigious names all appear on the board of 
directors of Dope, Incorporated. 

Among his business holdings. Major Bloomfield controls the 
Israeli Continental Corporation, the Canadian subsidiary of the 
Dutch Heinekens Breweries, and Credit Suisse of Canada, a 
correspondent bank to the Credit Suisse of Geneva that was 
among the holding agencies exposed by SDECE for laundering 
"hit money" to the OAS. (10) AJI these corporations are listed 
among the investors in Permindex. 

Like his law partner, Lazarus Phillips, and his clients, the 
Bronfmans, Major L, M. Bloomfield is an outstanding Zionist 
philanthropist. Among his numerous honorary positions, 
Bloomfield is the annual chairman of thcHistadrut Campaign of 
Canada, which collects "charitable contributions" and passes 
them on to the Israeli labor movement. Curiously, these funds 
have been discovered on several occasions to have found their 
way back to Permindex after recycling through the Histadrut's 
Bank Hapoalim. (11) 

Bloomfield's charitable activities extend into his chairmanship 



■. 



■ 



-■ 

I" 

f 



I; 

i 

i 



: 



<*-. 



■.■■'. 






¥ 
* 



:'' 



X 



of the Canadian Red Cross ambulance service, a position 
traditionally held by a top-ranking Knight in the Queen's official 
chivalric order, the Most Venerable Order of St. John of 
Jerusalem. As an operating arm of the Sovereign Order, the Red 
Cross ambulance service has been & frequently called upon front 
for terrorism. (12) 

Bloomfield's business interests extend into the field of 
transoceanic shipping. A former head of the Israeli Maritime 
League of Canada, Bloomfield has been the Consul-General in 
charge of the Western Hemisphere of the Liberian government 
since World War II. Liberia is notorious as both a tax shelter and 
smugglers* port-of-call. With no shipping regulations to speak of, 
Liberia is the flag of convenience under which the majority of 
ships bearing bulk shipments of Far East narcotics are 
registered, and also serves as one of the secondary ($7 billion in 
average daily transfers) offshore banking centers through which 
British drug revenues are laundered. 

The only other foreign-stationed Consul-General for Liberia is 
Bloomfield-Permindex associate and Israeli Mossad official 
(ret.) Tiber Rosen baum. whom we shall meet shortly. 

Beneath his various hats as banker, philanthropist, prominent 
attorney, and Permindex director, Bloomfield is first and 
foremost an agent of the most secretive branch of Her Majesty's 
intelligence service, the Special Operations Executive (SOE). 

Bloomfield was recruited to the SOE by its director, Sir 

William Stephenson, in 1938. (13) Stephenson, a Canadian-born 

protege of Round Table founder Lord Beaverbrook, appointed 

Bloomfield as the recruitment officer and "agent handler" for 

the newly created counterespionage and espionage branch of the 

U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), known as Division 

Five. (14) 

Agents of Division Five, in turn, have been among the points 

of the New Orleans grand jury investigation into the Kennedy 

assassination. Guy Bannister, the head of the southeast regional 

office of Division Five (located in New Orleans) at the time of the 

Kennedy murder, died under mysterious circumstances shortly 

after the events in Dallas, (15) Bannister was the owner of a New 

Orleans office building that housed a number of Division Five 



306 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



307 



fronts and groups under close D-5 surveillance. These included 
the left-radical Fair Play for Cuba Committee and the violently 
anti-Castro Free Cuba Committee. Lee Harvey Oswald was 
alternatively a member of both these groups during various 
stages of his "laundering/' (16) According to one source, in 1962 
Bannister was also the personal conduit of at least one $100,000 
payoff to the OAS for an assassination attempt against de Gaulle, 
One of his agents flew directly from New Orleans to Paris to 
deliver the funds. In 1966, that courier, who operated a 
Permindex front, the Caribbean Anti-Communist League, died 
when he was thrown out of a sixth floor window in a San Juan 
Puerto Rico, hotel. 07) 

How did Louis M. Bloomfield, a Canadian citizen, manage to 
assume a highly secretive top post within the Hoover FBI? And 
what's more, how did he manage to retain that post for over 30 
years — even after his name had been raised in conjunction with 
assassinations against officials of three governments? 
Stephenson, using the "special relationship" that British Prime 
Minister Winston Churchill had cultivated with Franklin 
Roosevelt, arranged Bloomf ield's commission as an officer in the 
U.S. Army (hence the rank of major) assigned to the Office of 
Strategic Services, the wartime predecessor of the Central 
Intelligence Agency. Bloomfield was only one of many Canadians 
brought into the U.S. military under Stephenson's auspices. (18) 

Stephenson was creating an SOE in-depth penetration into the 
American services that could run clandestine operations under 

an American cover. This became a particularly important 
feature of SOE postwar activities in locations like Italy where 
Churchill's open role in installing Mussolini in power had engen- 
dered a. profound hatred of the British. 

Unfortunately, very little of the publicly accessible information 
about the SOE is reliable. It is known that the SOE was created at 
the personal initiative of Sir Winston Churchill as an expansion of 
Section D (for "Destruction") of the British Secret Intelligence 
Service, the branch responsible for "aggressive espionage and 
sabotage" against enemies of the British Empire. (19) 
Evidently, after World War II, the United States, in Churchill's 
eyes, fit the definition of "enemy." 






■. 






5- 



As the top secret action branch of British intelligence, the SOE 
operated through "cutouts," especially commercial and phil- 
anthropic fronts. Stephenson set up SOE headquarters in New 
York City's Rockefeller Center under the name of an importing- 
exporting company and established its communications and 
clandestine center at a resort complex at Montego Bay, 
Jamaica. (20) Under Major Bloomfield, Division Five's spies 
operated as a Christian missionary group, sending its devotees to 
every corner of the United States and Latin America. (21) 

It should be noted that all the SOE's activities were conducted 
under the protective umbrella of Her Majesty's Official Secrets 
Act. Any British Commonwealth citizen releasing information 
about the SOE without the advance permission of the monarchy 
is liable to prosecution on charges of high treason, punishable by 
execution. No wonder that the reliable sources of information on 
the SOE are French, Italian, and West German intelligence 
agencies. 

A relevant feature of the wartime Stephenson-Bloomf ield team 
was its use of Mafiosi as "intelligence agents" for the U.S. OSS 
and FBI Division Five- Charles "Lucky" Luciano is the best- 
known case of a convicted drug-runner, pimp, and suspected 
murderer who was "rehabilitated" under OSS-SOE sponsor- 
ship. (22) Luciano was dispatched to Sicily to reconstitute 
old networks that had been dispersed or expatriated dur- 
ing the Mussolini period. Our point here is not to provide a biog- 
raphy of Luciano, but to show that Permmdex's Major Bloom- 
field came into active collusion with Meyer Lansky's narcotics 
syndicate by no later than the close of World War II— when he was 
more openly under the official auspices of the British monarchy. 

According to a four-part series of articles published in October 
197ft in the Soviet youth magazine Qgonyok by Julian Serayonov, 
the Bloomf i eld-Luciano collaboration was stilt operational in 1962 
when Luciano was the case officer on the scene in Sicily for the 
Mattei assassination. The decision to go with a plane crash was 
made by Luciano only after the options of hiring an OAS team or 
an American "leftist" controlled by a Texas nil company 
(invested in Permindex) were determined to be too politically 
explosive. (23) 



A. 



T 



308 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED GRIME 



309 



Based on this profile of the many-sided Major Bloomf jeld, the 
first pieces of the Perm index puzzle fall into place. Far from 
being a small international trading company, Permindex is 
revealed to be a subsidiary branch of the most powerful, well- 
financed, and well-protected intelligence agency in the world — a 
subsidiary branch responsible for carrying out the moat 
important political assassinations of the century. The next step in 
completing the Permindex puzzle is untangling the complex web 
of holding companies, dummy corporations, and offshore sealed 
bank accounts through which the Permindex Assassination 
Bureau works. 



The Bloomfield, Lansky, 
Rosenbaum circuit 

Sufficient evidence has surfaced in the public record to show 
that Permindex Is the courier channel through which the retail 
revenues of Dope, Incorporated are shuttled from the regional 
syndicates into designated secret bank accounts in Geneva. 
Basel, Liechtenstein, and the Caribbean. 

Even in its official records, Permindex cites among its 
investors the regional crime czars of North America and the 
Caribbean, the lieutenants of Meyer Lansky. (24) From 192B, 
when he inherited the bootleg booze and narcotics trade from the 
deceased Arnold Rothstein, Lansky has been the undisputed 
"chairman of the board'* of organized crime and the pusher 
behind the move into bigtime narcotics, offshore banking, and 
the Caribbean casino circuit. Lansky's biographer. Hank 
Messick, estimates that Lansky's personal fortune exceeds 
5300.000,000. Messick describes the weekly ritual in which the 
regional syndicate couriers converge on the Singapore Hotel in 
Miami to deliver 60 percent of their take to the "financial 
wizard." From there money travels the route of Dope, 
Incorporated. Reports Messick: 

The scope of Lansky's interests is illustrated by a trip his 
international courier, John Pullman, made in 1965. His first 



■ 
■ . 



;■ 



■■■. 



stop was Bogota, Colombia. The Eden Roc in Miami was 
his next destination. In February he went to the Sands 
Hotel in Las Vegas, where Lansky's old bootlegging chum 
from Boston, Hy Abrams, was boss. In March he was 
conferring in Los Angeles with Mike Singer, an ex- 
Teamster official who had helped put together the Bank of 
World Commerce (a part of the Permindex infrastructure 
of off shore banks — ed.) with Alvin Malnik, Later in March 
he was in Honolulu, where the syndicate was attempting to 
get control of Ewa Plantation and hoped, eventually to 
legalize gambling. In April he was at the Peninsular Hotel 
in Hong Kong, where the syndicate had casinos and 
obtained much of its narcotics. Lebanon and its casinos 
were visited next. By June, Pullman was back in Switzer- 
land where he conferred with Lansky in person. Together 
they visited the French Riviera to study plans for the 
u Hi m ate takeover of the ca s i nos there . (25) 

The money is placed in initial deposits in any one of a number 
of Geneva, Basel, Liechtenstein, or Caribbean banks affiliated 
with Major Bloomfield's little "trading company." Several of 
these banks, like the Astaldo Vaduz of Miami. De Famaco Vaduz 
of Liechtenstein, and De Famaco Astaldo Vaduz of Geneva, are 
post office box fronts. These three, for example, are all listed as 
wholly owned subsidiaries of Permindex. As noted above. Credit 
Suisse, one of the more formidable laundering holes, maintains a 
Canadian subsidiary, also run by Major Bloomfield. (26) The 
Bank of World Commerce Ltd. of Nassau, Grand Bahamas, was 

a personal creation of Lansky's. The largest and most important 
banking entity in the Permindex-Lansky family was the Banque 
de Credit Internationale (BCI) of Basel, which was bankrupted in 
1974 as part of a London upset of world financial markets . (27) 

BCI was itself almost indistinguishable from the infamous 
Investors Overseas Services UOS), an international "mutual 
fund" which garnered an excess of $2 billion in investment 
capital on behalf of "unnamed subscribers." (28) According to 
Messick, there are strong indications that the majority of those 
unnamed subscribers were named Meyer Lansky, IOS gained 



1 



DOPE, INC. 



international notoriety for its army of salesmen who crisscrossed 
the globe carrying satchels of cash earmarked for sealed bank 
accounts in every unregulated banking port in Western Europe, 
Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Middle and Far East. 

Any sleuth attempting to trace out the originating source for 
the IOS funds would do well to dig out the October 8, 19G7, issue of 
Life magazine, which detailed the following interesting 
triangular business relationship. (39) Sylvain Ferdman, an 
officer of BCI, was the business agent for the Investors Overseas 
Service. U.S. law enforcement officials in turn identified 
Ferdman as the chief bagman for the Lansky syndicate. 
Ferdman, a Swiss citizen, and John Pullman, an American who 
transferred his citizenship to Canada after a 1950s federal 
conviction, carried money from the Caribbean to Lansky, and 
then on to the B& and Bloomfield's Credit Suisse. Pullman, in 
addition to his global travels, was the president and director of 
the Bank of World Commerce Ltd. of Nassau. 

So far the picture is very neat. BC1-IOS was the Swiss side of a 
triangle composed of a dirty money professional hit bureau, and 
Meyer Lansky's retail drug business in North America and the 
Caribbean. Major Bloomfield's trading company in Montreal, 
with branch offices in Geneva and Rome (through its subsidiary 
Centro Mondiale Commerciale) , ran the protection side of the 
courier operation and was on the receiving end of those funds ear- 
marked for terrorism and political assassinations. (An 
assassination such as the John F. Kennedy hit or any one of the 30 
plus tries on the life of de Gaulle would cost upwards of $10 
million between the preparatory work, the hit. and the cover-up, 
which have often involved further murders.) The remainder of 
the dirty money either went to the Far East to cover production 
costs, to maintain the internal machinery of organized crime, 
N.A., or to investment in "legitimate" business, and so forth. 

The picture takes on additional political implications as we 
probe further into the Banque de Credit Internationale. 

BCI was originally established in 1959, at the same time Major 

Bloomfield founded Permindex as an intelligence and financial 
front for the Israeli Mossad. 

BCTs founder and president was Tibor Rosenbaum, a close 



ORGANIZED CHIME 



311 



associate of Bloomfield from at least the end of World War II 
when both smuggled weapons, money, and mercenaries into the 
Haganah. (SO) Rosenbaum was subsequently appointed the first 
Director-General for Finance and Supply of the Mossad (1948) . 
An Austrian Jew who graduated from the economics department 
of the University of Vienna (31) , Rosenbaum, in addition to his 
Mossad affiliation, was a cof ounder of the World Zionist Congress 
and a director of the Jewish Agency. The Jewish Agency in turn 
created the Bank Hapoalim as the official agent for the Israeli 
labor movement, Hist ad rut. 

With the exception of Major Bloomfield, Rosenbaum is the only 
foreign representative of the African smugglers' paradise. 
Liberia. 

The BCI was ostensibly founded as a vehicle for financing 
illegal Israeli trade with Africa and the Third World ; however, 
this half-truth served merely to justify its location in the world 
capital of secret banking, Switzerland, and its relationship to the 
Mossad. 

The picture emerges in full upon discovery of another member 
of the BCI board of directors: Ernst Israel Japhet. Japhet 
brings us straight back to the London banking circuit that runs 
Dope, Incorporated. 

Who is Ernst Israel Japhet in addition to his membership on the 
board of the bank that serviced Meyer Lansky's retail revenues 
from narcotics, gambling, prostitution? Japhet is the chairman 
of the Bank Leumi, the largest bank in Israel, which we have 
already identified as a link in the diamonds-for-dope trade into 
Hong Kong. The latest heir of a German Hofjuden banking family 
that traces its roots back centuries, Japhet was bought up by the 
Quaker Barclays Bank of London, that created the wholly owned 
subsidiary Charterhouse Japhet. The Japhet family's more 
recent roots go back to Hong Kong's opium trade, into which the 
family moved 150 years ago and never left (see Part II). The 
Japhet bank was the granddaddy of the Palestine-to-Hong-Kong 
dope-for -diamonds trade, now run by Bank Leumi under Mr. 
Japhet, now on behalf of his 100 percent owners in London at the 
staid offices of Barclays. 

Joining Japhet on the board of Leumi is Baron Stormont 



312 



DOPE, INC. 



Bancroft, a member of the Hofjuden Samuel family, a former 
Lord-in- Waiting to the Queen and a director and deputy chairman 
of Cunard Lines, a shipping company heavily involved in the drug 
traffic over Middle East, India, and Far East routes. (32) 

Bank Leumi keeps its hand in the drug trade through its 100 
percent owned subsidiary. Union Bank, of which Ernst Israel 
Japhet is also chairman. Union Bank deals over, one-third of the 
world's diamonds. 

Under Japhet, Bank Leumi bought into international terrorism 
in 1976 when it took over the American and Argentinian 
subsidiaries of the Banque pour le Commerce Continentale 
following its bankruptcy. The BBC's branch in Montevideo, 
Uruguay was the investment vehicle for the Israeli-Argentinian 
financier David Graiver, who was the financial advisor for the 
Argentine Montaneros. Graiver disappeared under strange 
circumstances in 1976. It was publicly reported that he died in a 
plane crash; however, subsequent reports speculated that he had 
clandestinely moved to Israel. (33) 

Bank Leumi was not the only Israeli bank to heavily invest in 

the Banque de Credit Internationale. Even more heavily 
involved is the Bank Hapoalim. As chairman of the Canadian 
Histadrut Campaign, Major Louis Mortimer Bloom-field of 
Permindex maintained direct cash flow relations to 

Hapoalim. (34) 

The Bank Hapoalim, the third largest bank in Israel, was 
founded by the Jewish Agency, which runs the bank today. Its 
founder and present board member, British High Commissioner 
Viscount Erwin Herbert Samuel, belongs to the same Samuel 
family that retains interests in Bank Leumi and Cunard Shipping 
Lines. Viscount Samuel presides as head of the Israeli Red Cross, 
an official branch of the Most Venerable Order of St. John of 
Jerusalem. (35) 

Bank Hapoalim has been widely exposed in the Western 
European press as a dirty-money channel into Swiss and 
Liechtenstein banks. (3$) The charge is corroborated by the 
presence of Bank Hapoalim director Zwi Recheter on the board 
of Rosenba urn's BCI. 

Another channel of Bank Hapoalim's complicity in the 




ORGANIZED CRIME 



313 



■'.\. 



£ 






5 V 



*-;, 



V 

.4, 
'r 

& 



Permindex family of dope traders and assassins is the Israeli 
Continental Bank Ltd., a 50-50 joint venture between Bank 
Hapoalim and its West German Socialist International 
counterpart. Bank fur Gemeinwirtschaft. The German bank is 
chaired by Walter Hesselhach, a member of the West German 
branch of the Jerusalem Foundation, the Zionist branch of the 
Order of St. John of Jerusalem. (37) 

Stepping back for a moment, what have we now pieced 
together? Within the sealed accounts and well-guarded board 
room of the Banque de Credit Internationale we have uncovered 
yet another point of convergence of the three divisions of Dope, 
Incorporated: the production -distribution wholesaling division 
represented by Bank Leumi director Ernst Israel Japhet, the 
criminally syndicated retail division represented by the Lansky 
bagmen Pullman and Ferdman, and the murder division 
represented by the cash flow into Permindex. We have now 
established that Israeli banking and the Israeli Mossad are 
cutouts — like their Hofjuden sponsors — of the British 
monarchy, which runs the whole show through its merchant 
banks and its Knights of St. John. 



The Nazi connection 

Having set all the pieces in their appropriate places, we have 
sketched the outlines of both an operational flow chart for Dope, 
Incorporated (See Figure 1) and a global network of professional 
murderers, narcotics traffickers, secret intelligence officers. 
and portly London bankers and aristocrats. 

Now let's return to the original question: what is Permindex? 
Working under SOE "case officer-in -charge" Major Louis 
Mortimer Bloomfield, at the executive offices 'of Permindex and 
its subsidiaries — the Centro Mondiale Commerciale, the Italo- 
American Hotel Corporation and Capocetto — is a rogue's gallery 
of Nazis and Fascists, underworld bosses, and feudal throwbacks 
— the sort of cast one would expect to encounter at the seat of 
International Murder, Inc. 

Begin with Prince Gutierez de Soadafora, the former 



1 

r! 

: 

: 




- 




s 

3 


(0 

o 


< 
> 

LU 


< 

CD 

z 




2 


LU 


o 


LU 


CO 


CO 


o 


o 





ra 






>. o 


e 


IT 




OH 


o 




1> 


xco 






LdundErMS 



l .^nidgredf 



e 











0) 


o 


E 


5 


< 
i 


O 


o 




« 











AC 



» 



0*. 



oc 



S*" 



ft! 



ft. 





^*. 






"5 






w 






c CO 
.H CO 










a c xi 




0) — oj 




V* 

o jc 


t§1 




5 S 










'!.■ 



n 









3 

aa 

a 
o 

a 

c 

a 



e 
— 1 






DOPE, INC. 




ORGANIZED CRIME 



317 



Undersecretary of Agriculture for Benito Mussolini. Spadafora is 
a director of Centro Mondiale Commercial and the president of 
the Sicilian Compagnia Amatrice Industriale Petrolifera 
Armatoviole, a front for illegal arms smuggling. (38) The 
prince's son married the daughter of former Nazi Finance 
Minister Hjalmar Schacht, the architect of the Nazi economic 
policy that led to the extermination of millions of Jews. Schacht' s 
other son-in-law was Nazi SS Colonel Otto Skorzeny, Hitler's 
Special Operations executive. After receiving a slap on the wrist 
for his wartime crimes against humanity, Skorzeny established 
the Spanish-based ADSAP Corporation, which hired out former 
Nazi SS paramilitary and intelligence specialists for projects 
arranged through Schacht. (30 

George Mantello (a.k.a. Mandel), the Romanian Jewish 
emigre whom we already encountered as a chief suspect in the 
Aldo Moro kidnapping-murder and who was under investigation 
by both the French SDECE and Garrison, is at once a hoard 
member of CMC and the owner of Permindex's Capocetto 
subsidiary. Capocetto was revealed by several Italian 
journalists (40) to he the liaison between the B'nai B'rith 
International and such terrorist gangs as the Red Brigades and 
the Baader-Mcinhof, as well as a string of neo-Nazi groups in 
West Germany and Italy. Implicated B'nai B'rith officials 
included B'nai B'rith International Director Schlumberger, B'nai 
B'rith Continental (the West European branch housed in Basel) 
chief Erlich, B'nai B'rith France (also known as Ligue 
Internationale contre I'Anti-Semitisme, or UCA) head Jean 
Pierre-BIoch, and B'nai B'rith Austria director George Bloch. 

Mantello is the financial advisor and investment banker for the 
House of Savoy, the pretenders to the nonexistent throne of 
unified Italy and the black nobility sponsors of Mussolini. (41) 

The administrative officer of Permindex is Max Hagerman. 
the editor of the West German right-wing newspaper National- 
Zeitung. Israeli media have denounced National Zeitung as a 
"neo-Nazi" publication. 

Ferenc Nagy was the President of Hungary during the Nazi 
occupation. Nagy tendered his resignation as President in 1946 



$ 
■$ 



.»: 



SS 
% 



■ 









- 



■ 



via an infamous telephone call placed from a bank lobby in 
Geneva. A member of the Eastern European branch (founded by 
the Radziwill family) of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, Nagy 
relocated to the United Slates during the 1950s. Here he became 
the titular head of a number of White Russian-Eastern European 
groups which performed covert services for Allen Dulles and 
Division Five of the FBI in Eastern Europe, employing former 
members of the Hungarian fascist movement, Arrow Cross. (42) 
According to one source, Nagy came under the close scrutiny of 
New Orleans District Attorney Garrison for possible involvement 
in the John Kennedy assassination. (43) Nagy was in Dallas for 
the four-week period leading up to November 22, 1963, as case 
officer for Permindex and Division Five. Along with Nagy, 
Garrison was investigating the simultaneous surfacing of George 
Mantello in Los Angeles. Garrison established that Nagy and 
Mantello were both business and personal associates of Carlos 
Marcello, the New Orleans lieutenant of Meyer Lansky who 
carried out the assassination of Enrico Mattei. 

Giuseppe Zigiotto, on the board of CMC, is the head of the 
House of Savoy Italian neofascist movement called the Fascist 
National Association for the Militia Arms. 

Carlo D'Amelio, another Permindex-CMC board member, is an 
agent for the Italian black nobility houses of Savoy and 
Pallavicino. From the Mussolini period, d'Amelio was the 
attorney representing the grouping of oligarchical families that 
imposed the fascist dictator in collaboration with Sir Winston 
Churchill. This grouping was known as Circo Rex ("Royal 
Circle") and is believed to exist today as the control point for the 

Red Brigades! the neofascist cells, and the Autonomi (a mass- 
based anarchist counterculture movement parallel to die youth 
movements out of which Mussolini recruited his Black Shirts.) 

The Pallavicini family, in addition to its sponsorship of terrorism 
and destabilization against the Italian government, is deeply 
involved in the Lebanese fascist movement, the Falange, through 
blood ties into the Coptic Christian families of Lebanon. 

On November 11, 1978, the Italian government's antiterrorist 
director, General Delia Chiesa. delivered a significant setback to 



318 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



319 



this oligarchical network by arresting Paolo Sebregondi on 
charges of conspiring with the Red Brigades in the assassination 
of Aldo Moro. Sebregondi is the son of Countess Viondi and 
grandson of Princess Resta-Pallavicino, the former maid-in- 
waiting to the Queen of Italy. Paolo's brother, Stefano 
Sebregondi, known to be presently hiding in Mexico, is also being 
sought by Delia Chicsa in the same case. The exposure of this 
long-concealed link between the ostensibly gutter-level left 
radical Red Brigades and the Houses of Savoy and Pallavicini — 
the employers of d'Amelio and George and Enrico Mantello — 
establishes the chain of court admissible evidence for the 
Permindex role in carrying out the murder of Aldo Moro at the 
behest of the Black Nobility centered in London. 

One of the principal channels of laundered money for 
Perm index-CMC's assassination teams is in the Seiigman Bank 
of Zurich, a bank represented directly on the board of 
International Assassination Bureau by Hans Seiigman, the 
director of the bank. 

Although not an officially cited board member of any of the 
Permindex fronts, John De Menil bears special note as an 
indispensable business partner of Major Bloomfield. DeMenil is 
the president of the Schlumberger Corporation of Houston and 
southern Florida. The firm was implicated by Jim Garrison 
along with Permindex in smuggling guns and explosives to anti- 
Castro Cuban exiles who also came under investigation for the 
Kennedy assassination. DeMenil worked with a CIA Miami- 
based front called "Double-Chek," which in turn was a contact 
point for Major Bloomfield's FBI Division Five. (44) 

DeMenil is a White Russian emigre who fled to France, 
married into the wealthy Schlumberger family, and eventually 
settled in Houston to open a U.S. branch of the family's heavy 
machinery firm. DeMenil was a close associate and contact man 
for Permindex case officer Nagy during the preparation period 
for the Kennedy assassination. {45) 

One of DeMemTs closest associates is Col. Clay Shaw, a 
member of the Permindex-CMC board. Shaw was Garrison's 
chief suspect in the Kennedy killing and is the business partner of 



z. 



;% 



% 









V 



Carlos Marcello. Shaw's circle of former associates who myster- 
iously died before they could testify before D.A. Garrison 
included: David Feirie. Shaw's former pilot and employee at the 
World Trade Mart; Guy Bannister, the southeast regional chief 
of Major BloomfieUfs Division Five of the FBI; and George de 
Mohrenschildt, a White Russian leader who allegedly committed 
suicide on the eve of his scheduled appearance before the House 
Assassination Panel. The day of his death he was interviewed by 
journalist Edward Jay Epstein, a self-admitted ghost writer and 
stringer for former Central Intelligence Agency counterintelli- 
gence director James Jesus Angleton. (46) 

No discussion of Permindex, Division Five, or Major L.M. 
Bloomfield would be complete without a note on the controversial 
Mr. Angleton. This is not the time to reach any verdict on 
Angleton's place in the international hall of fame of assassins, 
dope pushers, and spies. We merely note a fantastic coincidence 
of facts. As head of counterintelligence for the CIA for nearly 30 
years. Angleton was the official in charge of all activities relating 
to terrorism, assassinations, and international narcotics traffic. 
As the head of the Israeli Desk, he was also the liaison chief to the 
Mossad. Among his other responsibilities at the CIA, Angleton 
ran the Vatican desk, a position that placed him equally in touch 
with the House of Savoy. This last connection would have been 
solidified way back in the 1940s when Angleton was the OSS 
station chief for Italy, and therefore the officer in charge of OSS 
special agent Charles "Lucky" Luciano. 

En short, Permindex' s roster of directors and associates makes 
a mockery of everything the Zionist Lobby professes to stand for. 
The Montefiores, the de Hirschs. the Rothschilds, and their Bronf- 
man and Bloomfield retainers are at once the most zealous 
leaders of the Zionist Lobby and the sponsors and controllers of a 
criminal network that extends to self-professed Nazis. It is time 
to bring before the courts the persons of Louis Bloomfield, Tibor 
Rosenbaum, the directors of Bank Leumi, of Bank Hapoalim, of 
B'nai B'rith International, of the Histradrut. Among the long list 
of indictments, one of the charges would be violation of the 



:■■ 



320 



DOPE, INC. 



Nuremberg statutes for crimes against humanity — for deploy- 
ing drug-runners and convicted Nazis for assassinations of world- 
shaking importance. Before the Zionist Lobby shouts "anti-Semi- 
tism, " it must explain the composition and directorate of 
Permindex, which exposes once and for all the real controllers of 

the Nazi "Black" International- 



4 



Permindex Unveiled: 
Resorts International 

-Intertel 



if" 



■■■ 



. & 



In September, 1974 less than four weeks after President 
Richard Nixon was driven out of office, Evelyn de Rothschild. 
Walter Hesselbach, and a handful of others conspired to bring 
down the Banque de Credit Internationale 0). The collapse 
caused a momentary panic on the international financial 
markets and more longterm financial problems for such people 
as Nixon and Michele Sindona, the Italian banker, whose poor 
judgment led them to place their money in the hands of IOS. Did 
this financial catastrophe spell the end of Permindex? After all. 
BCI had been one of the centerpieces of the dirty money side of 
Major Blcomfield's assassination bureau. 

Not only did the International Assassination Bureau survive 
the September 1974 events, and the earlier shunting of Permin- 
dex to South Africa. Pulling the plug on the BCI appears to have 
been a loud diversionary maneuver to obscure the fact that 
quietly, systematically, over a period of years, the Permindex 
capability was upgraded, expanded, and relocated to a spot only 
miles off the coast of the United States: Paradise Island in the 
Grand Bahamas. Here stands the corporate headquarters of 




321 



322 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



323 



Resorts International and its wholly owned subsidiary security 
division. International Intelligence ("Intertel"). 

Forget about the pictures of Resorts International in glossy 
travel brochures or the advertisements in the Travel Section of 
the Sunday New York Times. Scarcely concealed among the 
palm trees, the swimming pools, and the all-night casinos and 
nightclubs is Major Bloom field's Royal Commission of High Exe- 
cutioners — and billions of dollars in dope. Barely .hidden behind 
the Resorts International letterhead is the eminence grise of 

organized crime, Meyer Lansky. 

Beginning no later than 1960, Lansky hatched a grand scheme 
to create a "Hong Kong West" (2) in the Caribbean: an offshore 
center that would bring together gambling, narcotics, dirty 
money, and Murder Inc. under one unregulated and "highly 
respectable' ' roof. 

First, Lansky picked the Grand Bahamas Island as the site for 
a plush casino-resort. Operating through a Canadian "cutout," 
longtime business associate Louis Chesler, Lansky negotiated a 
purchase of a large tract of land on the island and oversaw the 
construction of a grand hotel, the Lucayan Beach Hotel, which 
was completed and opened for business before the end of 1963. (3) 
At the time the venture began, casino gambling was illegal in the 
Grand Bahamas — except for those hotels that received a Certifi- 
cate of Exemption from the Bahamian government. The most 
powerful political figure on the island, chief of the so-called "Bay 
Street Boys," was Sir Stafford Sands. Several meetings between 
Sands and Chesler and $1,800,000 in bribery later, Lansky re- 
ceived his Certificate of Exemption on March 27, 1963. On 
January 22, 1964, the casino at Lucayan Beach was opened under 
festive circumstances that Hank Messick described as follows : 

The international jetset was on hand to give the event 
some class, but Meyer Lansky's veterans were in complete 
control Red Ritter was general manager; Max Courtney 
was credit manager; Charley Brudner was his assistant; 
Dino Cellini was supervisor, and so on. As a matter of fact, 
Dino had operated a school in London to train the dealers 
and stick men who came originally from Sicily by way of 
the syndicate casino on the Isle of Man in the Irish Sea. (4) 



< 



V 



i 



< 



Phase One of Lansky's "Operation Respectable" completed, 
the old wizard proceeded with the next steps. First, he cleared 
the way for a consortium of "legitimate" investors headed by the 
Miami-based Mary Carter Paint Company to bu$ into Hog Island 
(renamed Paradise Island by its owner Huntington Hartford, the 
multimillionaire magnate of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea 
Company) and to receive a Certificate of Exemption for the con- 
struction of a hotel- gambling casino. Sir Stafford Sands, now in 
Lansky's hip pocket, saw these measures through and simul- 
taneously announced that the Bahamian government was under- 
taking the construction of a bridge connecting Grand Bahamas to 
Hog Island, to be completed by December 31, 1967. (5) 

What sort of weird entity was Mary Carter Paints and why had 
Meyer Lansky gone out of his way to open all the doors on Bay 

Street to it? 

To begin with the obvious. Mary Carter Paint Company was in- 
volved in more than wall coverings. In 1958, it was effectively 
taken over by merger with the Crosby-Miller Co. — a Florida 
company about which little is known except that former New 
York Governor and two-time Republican presidential candidate 
Thomas Dewey was one of its biggest investors. (6) Dewey's 
"Mr. Clean" crimebuster reputation, dating back to his days as 
special prosecutor during the 1940s, was a perfect cover for 
Lansky's move to Paradise Island. 

Via the 1958 merger, the president of Mary Carter Paint 
Company was James M. Crosby. Crosby's brother, Peter Crosby. 
was a convicted stock swindler and a close business associate of 
Dino Cellini. Cellini was the first lieutenant to Meyer Lansky and 
was known as Florida's "connection" to Canadian heroin traf- 
ficker Guiseppi Cotroni. So even with Gov. Thomas Dewey's 
Anglophile profile on the label of every can of Mary Carter Paint, 
the product was severely tarnished by bigtime crime. 

Fidel Castro's takeover of Cuba in 1959 had been a bitter pill for 
the Lansky syndicate to swallow; however, it taught the old 
wizard a valuable lesson: don't take politics for granted. Before 
he socked tens of millions of dollars into his Grand Bahamas 
dreamland, Lansky would make absolutely certain that he was 
treading on solid political ground. 
So, in 1964, Lansky arranged a small scandal centered around 



324 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



325 



the sudden "revelation" that Lucayan Beach promoter Lou 
Chester had connections to organized crime boss Meyer Lansky f 
Chester Jcft the island no doubt laughing all the way to the bank, 
and Lansky became invisible. 

Next, Lansky moved to overthrow the deeply entrenched and 
corrupted Bay Street Boys (the "Batistas of the Bahamas") and 
impose a new government committed to the public welfare of the 
Bahamian population — as long as the welfare was provided hy 
revenues from lucrative gambling takes. Covertly, Lansky politi- 
cal operatives — often men like Big Mike McLaney, who had 
been Lansky's bagman for payoffs to Cuban dictator Batista — 
began to heavily bankroll the Progressive Liberal Party repre- 
senting the islands' black majority. (7) 

At the same time, Lansky began releasing blackmail dossiers 
on the Bay Street Boys. First. James Crosby went to the Justice 
Department to meet with Robert Peloquin of the Organized 
Crime Strike Force. Crosby clinched a deal with Peloquin (repre- 
senting Robert Kennedy's "secret team"). Shortly thereafter 
Peloquin launched a full-scale investigation into "corruption in 
the Grand Bahamas" — using the evidence provided through 
Lansky. Another Lansky frontman, Tex McCrary, began leaking 
material to the press. McCrary's leaks enabled the Wall Street 
Journal to. win the 1966 Pulitzer Prize for a lengthy series of 
articles exposing -the connections between organized crime and 
the ruling political elite of the island — the Bay Streeters. (8) 

Following the Croshy-Peloquin meeting, in 1965 the Internal 
Revenue Service — in conjunction with the Organized Crime 
section of the Justice Department — embarked on "Operation 
Tradewinds," ostensibly an investigation into "hot money" oper- 
ations in the Bahamas. Heading the IRS side of the investigation 
was William Koler. Running the effort from the Justice Depart- 
ment was Robert Peloquin, working in close contact with Organ- 
ized Crime and Racketeering section head Henry Peterson and 
Criminal Division head William Hundley. 

By Christmas, 1966, growing scandals had presented the Bay 
Street Boys with a fait accompli. They called for elections and, on 
January 10, 1967, were driven out of office hy the Progressive 
Liberal Party. Progressive chairman Lynden 0. Pindling 



*■ 



V 



became Premier, and he petitioned for the convening of a Royal 
Commission of Inquiry to handle the organized crime penetration 
and control over Bay Street. The commission was convened in 
February 1967 under the chairmanship of Sir Ranulph Bacon, 
former head of Scotland Yard. Its investigation was based almost 
exclusively on the Lansky dossiers, which were passed on to Sir 
Ranulph by the Operation Tradewinds crew. (9) 

By March 1967, all competitors with Mary Carter Paint 
Company had withdrawn their bids on the Hog Island land in fear 
that they would be exposed for their corrupt ties to Bay Street. 
Before the end of the month. Sir Stafford Sands packed his bags 
and retired to a castle in Spain. 

Lansky, as the business agent for Dope, Incorporated, had 
completed a most silent coup d'etat. In rapid succession, all the 
rats surfaced to claim their just rewards. 

Peloquin and Hundley "retired" from the Justice Department, 
opened up a law firm, and within a month were retained to 
manage the legal affairs of "Resorts International" — the new 
name adopted by Mary Carter Paints in 1966 when it made the bid 
for Hog Island. Both men became vice presidents of Paradise 
Enterprise, Inc., the Resorts International subsidiary that owns 
the island. By 1970, Resorts had created a wholly owned subsidi- 
ary private security army, Intertel, Its cofounders (who started 
off with a $2,000,000 commission from Resorts) were Peloquin, 
who became president, and Hundley, who became the secretary 
and the general counsel. Their initial recruits were drawn princi- 
pally from the Operation Tradewinds taskforce, beginning with 
former IRS Intelligence Division head Koler. What Perm-Index 
had previously done under a shroud of secrecy and multiple 
layers of cover, Intertel was set up to do on a grand scale — 
before the public eye under the cover of crime control! 

Before we look at intertel and its personnel, more closely, it is 
important to set a few things straight about the investment 
capital that went into the construction of Resorts International. 

Resorts International was financed largely with a transfer of 
funds from the Banque de Credit Internationale of Tibor Rosen- 
baum and Major Louis Mortimer Bloomfield, and the Investors 
Overseas Service of Bemie Cornfeld and the Rothschild family. 



326 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGAN12ED CRIME 



327 



An estimated $14 million in transferred monies traveling through 
Meyer Lanskys World Trade Bank and the Fiduciary Trust 
Company of Nassau, a wholly owned subsidiary of 10S r found 
their way into Resorts during its half-dozen formative years. (10) 
Furthermore, by the agreement that first cleared the way for 
the granting of the property title, the construction rights, and the 
vital Certificate of Exemption, 44 cents on every dollar of profit 
taken in at the Paradise Island casino goes to the Lucayan Beach 
Hotel and Casino Corporation — still largely owned hy Meyer 
Lansky tJirough his Canadian business partner Lou Chesler. 

From its investors* side then. Resorts International is indis- 
tinguishable from the previously Geneva and Basel-head- 
quartered Fermindex-BCI-IOS - a nexus that we have shown to 
be founded on the revenues of Dope, Incorporated. Resorts Inter- 
national equals bigtime drug trafficking; cocaine and marijuana 
from the Caribbean and South America, LSD and hashish pro- 
duced in factories in the Bahamas, Costa Rica, etc., with venture 
capital provided through IOS. Resorts International's stationing 
on Paradise Island created the "Silver Triangle" — a dope route 
up through the Caribbean that the U.S. Drug Enforcement 
Administration estimates to be the source of over $7 billion a year 
alone in narcotics passed through the southernmost tip of 
Florida. 



Permindex moves to Bay Street 

As the guts of BCI moved to Paradise Island, so the Permindex 
murder ring moved to Intertel. No longer was the Special Oper- 
ations Executive to house its secret assassination teams in 
trading companies, Christian missionary schools, and commer- 
cial executive airline services. Murder, Inc. was to become part 
of the respectable, Kennedy "liberal establishment," flaunting 
itself as a private intelligence army for hire. 

Of course, occasionally old methods of cover were demanded 
when inquiring reporters, grand juries, or congressional com- 
mittees threatened to come a bit too close to the truth. Thus 
when Intertel was brought before the Senate Watergate Com- 
mittee for possible investigation, it was officially described as a 



"commercial firm that specialized in the identification of type- 
writers/' (11) 
What is Internationa] Intelligence? A "Who's Who" listing of 

its board and senior staff reads like a printout of British intel- 
ligence, the Mafia, andMossad. 

Intertel President Robert Peloquin was a troubleshooter on the 
Kennedy Justice "secret team" under Walter Sheridan, A World 
War II naval intelligence officer assigned to the Office of Naval 
Intelligence, Peloquin was transferred to the National Security 
Agency where he remained until moving to the criminal division 
of the Justice Department. In 1966, Peloquin was sent to Buffalo 
to head up the first official Organized Crime Strike Force in the 
country. Peloquin 's "no crime here" cover up of the Jacobs 
family syndicate (see Section 5) was so well received that his 
boss. Henry Peterson, was gratefully hired as general counsel for 
the Jacobs' Sportsystems Corporation and let loose with a $1 
million annual budget. Hundley and Peloquin run Intertel; Peter- 
son runs Sportsystems; all three have been partners in the same 
law firm since 1976. 

Hundley, the secretary and general counsel for Intertel, spent 
the 1951-57 years in the Internal Security section of the Justice 
Department. In that capacity, Hundley would have liased with 
the Division Five of the FBI headed by Permindex* s Major Louis 
Mortimer Bloomfield. From Internal Security, Hundley moved 
onto the Kennedy Justice "secret team" and participated in the 
prosecution of Teamster President James Hoffa. 

Sir Ranulph Bacon, the former head of Scotland Yard who con- 
ducted the Royal Commission inquiry that cleaned out the Bay 
Street Boys for Lansky, cashed in his chips by moving on to the 
Intertel board. 

John D. O'Connell is the executive vice-president of intertel in 
charge of its New York City operations. A 24-year veteran of the 
. FBI, O'Connell was the supervisor of all FBI intelligence activi- 
ties related to organized crime. 

Thomas J. McKeon, vice-president and assistant general 
counsel, was a supervisor with Major Bloomfield' s FBI Division 
Five before he went to Detroit to head up the Organized Crime 

Strike Force. 
David Belisle, a member of the board, was the Deputy Director 



328 



DOPE, INC. 



for Security at the State Department and subsequently the head 
of the Security section of the National Security Agency. 

Edward M. Mullin, presently interte-i's director of intelligence 
operations, was with Division Five of the FBI and later with the 
CIA as an assistant deputy director in charge of clandestine ser- 
vices. Mullin's private security front in Washington. D.C.. was in- 
famous as the base of operations for E. Howard Hunt during the 
time of the Watergate breakin. Mullin is also directly tied into the 
Miami Double-Chek Outfit that is implicated in several Permin- 
dex-run assassinations, including the JFK killing. 

Among the other board members and ranking staff of Intertel 
are: a retired director of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police; a 
president of the Bronfman family's Royal Bank of Canada Trust 
Company; a president of the Dreyfus Corporation, an investment 
fund owned by the Hof judex de Gunzberg family, into which the 
Bronfmans are intermarried. 

What do we have here? First Vfc have Resorts International, 
financed through the Geneva-Basel retail revenues of Dope, Inc. 
The manager of Paradise Island for its first half decade of opera- 
tion (1968-73) was Eddie Cellini, the brother of Dino Cellini and 
another well-known lieutenant of Meyer Lansky. (When Cellini's 
criminal record became a potential sore spot for Resorts, he was 
discreetly shipped off to Miami where he now handles "charter 
flights' ' between Florida and Paradise Island — flights that may 
shuttle more than paying customers.) In 1972, Robert Vesco 
came a hairsbreadth away from buying majority holdings in 
Resorts International for $60 million — a transaction that was 
heartily endorsed fay the "supersleuths at Intertel, (12) 

If Resorts International is a glossy front for Meyer Lansky s 
retail end of the biggest business in the world then what does that 
say for its wholly owned subsidiary, Intertel? Is it conceivable 
that this collection of senior officials from the most prestigious 
and sophisticated intelligence services of the United States, 
Canada, and Britain could be oblivious to the fact that they are 
"riding shotgun'' for one of the biggest channels of narcotics and 
hot money in the Western Hem isphere? 

Intertel stands exposed as the successor to Major Bloomfield's 
Permindex, drawing on the same SOE-Division Five capabilities. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



329 



the same "direct line" interface into the official intelligence 
branches of half the countries in the world, the same allegiance to 
the British oligarchy behind the $200 billion a year Dope, Inc. 
While the motives may vary case by case, it is sufficient to say 
that anyone on the inside of Intertel attempting to break from its 
service and spill the beans would have about the same chance for 
survival as a Royal Hong Kong police officer who decided to turn 
down his weekly bribery envelope. 

With the consolidation of Resorts International, we once again 
swing full circle. From a Prohibition-era jumping-off point of 
syndicated organized crime in the United States — fostered by 
the same British families that had ordered the Shanghai 
massacre to safeguard the rule of Dope, Inc. in China — we now 
find ourselves 50 years later confronted by a criminal infra- 
structure lobbying for the decriminalization of crime itseif! The 
Kennedy Justice, Scotland Yard, and RCMP boys at Intertel sell 
their services as "experts in cleaning out undesirable criminal 
elements from your corporation. 1 ' (13) Through this ruse they 
captured the Howard Hughes fortunes and are at present taking 
over "security services" for all the big Las Vegas casinos. (14) 
They moved into New Jersey and imposed gambling, 
horse racing, and numbers as the three "growth industries"; 
they are now posing New Jersey as the model to be followed by 
Florida, Arizona, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and New York. 

After World War II, one of the economic warfare specialists in 
Sir William Stephenson's SOE, a fellow named Ian Fleming, 
wrote a series of coded novels describing the efforts at world 
conquest of a "third force" — an ultramodern international 
crime syndicate housed in the resort islands of the Caribbean. 
The weapons of "third force" conquest were drugs, political 
assassinations, grand-scale blackmail, and economic war 
against the nations of the world. With Resorts Intornational- 
Intertel, Fleming's "third force" — the British oligarchy's Dope, 
Inc. — put itself up for trade on the stock markets of the world. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



5 



The Jacobs Family's 
Emprise: Sports and Crime 



On June 2, 1976, moments after a bomb exploded in his car and 
inflicted fatal injuries, dying Arizona investigative reporter Don 
Bolles whispered three words to the rescue team that pulled him 
from the wreckage: "Mafia . . . Emprise . . . Adam son." 

Bolles was on the verge of completing a seven-year investiga- 
tion of laundered drug traffic money in the state of Arizona, 
including organized crime takeovers of dog tracks and horse 
racing— areas the Buffalo-based Jacobs family began moving 
into in 1959. A Phoenix resident, John Adamson, pleaded guilty to 
the murder in January 1977, naming a local real estate developer. 
Max Dunlop, as the man who hired him to murder Bolles. 
Mysteriously, no investigation ever took place of Emprise, the 
leading vehicle since 1916 of the Jacobs family, which had been 
the primary target of Bolles 's investigation and the subject of his 
last words. 

Emprise was one of the largest nonpublic, family-owned 
corporations in the world, a conglomerate with control or partial 
control over 450 separate companies. Its stated annual profit is 
$350 million, from holdings in North American and British 



r 



■ 
- 



■ 

- 



\ 



sports complexes, race tracks, and food consortia. It is probably 
the biggest quasi-legitimate cover for organized crime's money 
laundering in the United States. Were it a public company, it 
would rank about 150 in the Fortune 500. 

The Jacobs family's only concession to the numerous attempts 
by law enforcement agencies to shut them down was to change 
Emprise's name to Sporlsy&tems in 1972. 

The vast extent of the present Jacobs empire is approximated 
by Sportsystems* 1977 declared holdings. The pattern that 
emerges conforms to the requisites of an international launder- 
ing racket for narcotics, prostitution, and gambling receipts. 

Sportsystems Corporation maintains: 

"majority interest or significant minority interests in over 20 
horse racing tracks in the United States and Canada; 

*food concessions at over 40 horse racing tracks in the United 
States and Canada plus another 15 in England. Those in Great 
Britain are maintained in the name of Sportsystems 1 wholly 
owned subsidiary. Letheby and Christopher Ltd., chaired by a 
retired British Army colonel, Livingstone Learmouth; 

*over ten greyhound racing tracks in the United Stales and 
Canada, including majority holdings in nearly every track in the 
heavily drug-trafficked state of Arizona; 

*24 concession contracts with major-league baseball teams in 
the United States, including Chicago's Comiskey Park and 
Detroit's Tiger Stadium ; 

"ownership of the Boston Garden indoor professional sports 
complex and the Boston Bruins professional ice hockey team ; 

'ownership of Professional Sports Publications, Inc., the 
largest U.S. publisher of sports events programs ; 

*1S1 concessions at theaters and bowling alleys in the United 

States; 

*15 airport concessions, including in-flight and ground-level 
concessions at Washington, D.C. airports and Palm Springs, 
Florida: 

*t wo j ai alai stadiums (legal gambling facilities) in Florida ; 

"industrial food catering services at such locations as the Gulf 
of Mexico oil drilling platforms; and 

*onc Alaska-to-Seattle cargo fleet comprised of six ships. This 



330 



332 



DOPE. INC. 



route curiously parallels the prime entry point to the U.S. of 
Chinese heroin. 

Within this maze of operations, each characterized by a high 
volume of cash turnover, the $350 million figure is a fraud, pub- 
lished for tax purposes. Law enforcement sources estimate the 
annual flowthrough of tainted cash in the range of several billions 
of dollars. 

That is not conjecture. Emprise and its incarnation. Sport- 
systems, lefta broad trail of investigations, indictments, and con- 
victions, occurring mainly during the years of Nixon's War on 
Drugs— a trail that ended with the Bolies murder. In 1972, the 
family firm was convicted of conspiracy to take over a gambling 
casino in Las Vegas by illegal means. That incident, among other 
things, provoked the change of the Emprise name. Indicted along 
with the Jacobs brothers were some of the best known faces in 
the mug files of the Justice Department's Organized Crime 
Strike Force. Among the co-conspirators were top racketeers, 
drug traffickers, and the entire leadership of the Detroit mob, 
including 

*Anthony Zerilli, son of Joseph Zerilli, Detroit's mob boss and 
an official of the Emprise subsidiary. Hazel Park Racing 
Association; 

^Michael B. Polizzi of Grosse Point, Michigan, an owner of the 
Valley Die Cast Association, identified as a Detroit mob lieu- 
tenant in police files ; 

*Anthony Giordano of the "St. Louis Banana Distributing 
Company." the kingpin of St. Louis drug traffic; 

"Peter J. Bellanca, also a director of the Emprise-owned Hazel 
Park Racing Association; and 

*Jacob Shapiro, a Detroit-Miami mobster, with interests in Las 
Vegas' Silver Slipper casino. 

Conviction in the same dock with known mobsters 
did not deter the Jacobs family. Since 1972, they have con- 
tinued to act as money-movers and bagmen for a whole list of 
organized crime figures. Several large loans to crime syndicates 
are on the record, including a $2 million 1972 loan to the Montreal 
Expos— owned by their old sponsors and counterparts across the 

Canadian border, the Bronfman family of Montreal. An earl- 



ORGANIZED CRIMP 



333 



ier recipient was convicted murderer Raymond Patriarcha, 
the crime boss of Rhode Island. Louis Jacobs, one of the three 
brothers, brought Patriarcha. into a partnership in the Chicago 
Lion Manufacturing Company, since renamed the Bally Manu- 
facturing company, the largest American producer of pinball and 
slot machines and the source of supply for the mob's pinball 
distribution. Also on the list of the Jacobs' "loan" recipients are a 
number of associates of syndicate financier Meyer Lanaky, 
including Morris Dalitz, according to testimony introduced into 
the Congressional Record (I). 
A Michigan grand jury is currently hearing a case implicating 

the Jacobs 1 Sportsystems and the Jacobs brothers personally in 
an attempt to tamper with Michigan state criminal records 
involving members of the Zerilli mob and St. Louis crime figure 
Morris S honker. 

Despite a record of criminal activity stretching hack to the 
1910s— and never interrupted— the Jacobs family remains one of 
the open, "legitimate 1 ' fronts for Dope, Incorporated. Not only is 
the Jacobs family protected, but, as we will document below, it 
retains a group of veterans of the Kennedy Administration's 
Organized Crime Strike Force as its legal department. 

Emprise appeared in 1916, the year that the Bronfmans and the 
Hudson's Bay Company began bootlegging through the "Pure 
Drug Distribution Company,'* using the three Jacobs brothers as 
contacts right across the border in Buffalo. The original Jacobs 
brothers, Louis, Marvin, and Charles, used the old smugglers' 
cover of "food concessions" for a chain of vaudeville theaters on 
the Canadian border crossing points at Buffalo and Cleve- 
land- (2) The modus operandi is pretty much the one Mitchell 
Bronfman used during the early 1970s for smuggling heroin into 
the United States. Once established, the Jacobs machine became 
a leading distributor for Bronfman liquor as the United States 
went dry. 

Functionally, Emprise represented the "throttle" through 
which shipments of liquor could be turned on or off to the 
American mob. The Jacobs family, enduring a half-dozen crim- 
inal indictments through the 1920s, controlled the supply and 
financing of illegal booze for most of American organized crime. 




334 



DOPE. INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



335 



Their dependents included the Purple Gang of Detroit, the gang 
convicted with the Jacobs brothers in the 1972 Las Vegas 
incident; the Morris Dalitz Cleveland-Las Vegas crime syndi- 
cate: and the Crown-Lundheimer mob in Chicago, the Zionist 
controllers of the colorful "cutout*' Al Capone. (3) Not only are 
these ties still in place; every man who tried to do something 
about them is either dead, like reporter Don Bolles. or broken, 
like former Arizona Congressman Sam Steiger. 



The Steiger investigation 



Beginning in 1970, five-term Arizona conservative Congress- 
man Sam Steiger began an investigation into Emprise's activ- 
ities in his home state. Working closely with Bolles. Steiger 
prepared a series of reports for the House Select Committee on 
Crime, of which he was a member. Steiger placed two damning 
reports on Emprise in the Congressional Record in 1970 and 
1972 (4). He also widely publicized the finding of an Arizona State 
Auditor General report charging Emprise with falsifying figures 
to get a tax-break bill through the State Legislature. By 1972, in 
conjunction with the Nixon Justice Department, he succeeded in 
getting grand jury charges and federal court convictions against 
Emprise and the six Detroit area mobsters already cited. On 
May 24, 1972, pressure on Emprise had reached such a public 
crescendo that even Sports Illustrated ran a lengthy expose titled 
"Jacobs — Godfather of Sports": the magazine was promptly 
sued for $20 million and settled out of court. 

At that point, Democratic Party politicians and prominent 
figures in the Zionist Lobby went into action on Emprise's behalf. 
Not coincidental!?^, the same forces that came forward for 
Emprise were also preparing the Watergate scandal to bring 
down President Richard Nixon. (5) 

Democratic members of the House Select Panel on Crime 
denounced the majority report prepared by Steiger exposing 
Emprise's ties to organized crime. As admitted by Max and 
Jeremy Jacobs in congressional testimony, Emprise hired New 
York public relations man Hal Antin to defeat Steiger in his 1976 



i e; 



re-election bid. A Phoenix underworld figure, George H. 
Johnson, was paid to wiretap and survey Steiger and manufac- 
ture scandals against him. Arnold Weiss, a Buffalo attorney on 
the Emprise payroll, was sent to meet with Steiger and deliver a 
series of ultimatums. Weiss reportedly threatened to ruin Steiger 
by planting rumors that his marriage had broken up after his wife 
caught him in illicit relations with their three-year-old daughter. 
Such rumors, in fact, did appear in various Arizona media. (6) 

In 1972, Senator Robert Dole, a Kansas Republican, publicly 
protested the House Select Panel's decision to terminate the 
hearings on Emprise. Dole revealed that the decision had 
followed a private meeting between Jeremy Jacobs and Demo- 
cratic National Committee Chairman Larry O'Brien. O'Brien 
subsequently left his Democratic Party post and assumed a 
lucrative job as president of the National Basketball Associ- 
ation — an organization with heavy representation by the Jacobs 
family. 

As the Watergate campaign broke down Nixon's resistance and 
dismantled the core of his efforts to suppress organized crime, 
the attack against Emprise faded. By June 1976, Don Bolles was 
dead. On November 3, 1976, in an election heavily shaped by 
nationwide vote fraud (7), Rep. Steiger lost his bid for a sixth 
term in Congress. By this time a broken man fearing for bis life, 
Steiger met with Jeremy Jacobs to "apologize" for his accusa- 
tions against Emprise. At this time Emprise-Sportsystems had 
three pending civil suits against Steiger. In a last act of 
humiliation, Steiger wrote to Attorney General Edward Levi as a 
spokesman for Emprise on behalf of a presidential pardon for the 
1972 federal racketeering conviction. Incoming Attorney General 
Griffin Bell turned down the request as "not deserving." (8) 



Jacobs and Royal Crown 



The second generation of Jacobs brothers. Max, Jeremy, and 
Lawrence, underwent the same "washing" into respectable 
society as their old Prohibition business partners, the 
Bronfmans. Ironically, the Jacobs brothers used their longstand- 




336 



DOPE, INC. 



ing association with the Bronf mans, since married into the upper 
reaches of the European Hofjuden, to lend them an air of respect- 
ability somewhat above that of the outright thugs with whom they 
still do most of their business. For example, a third-generation 
Jacobs, Jeremy, took his "higher education'* not at a university, 
but at the Toronto Jockey Club, after his 1960 high school 
graduation. The Bronfman-run Toronto Jockey Club, like its 
counterpart in Hong Kong, is not only one of Canada's best 
protected dirty money-gathering outfits, but a place where 
Hofjuden and gangsters can amiably mix in safety. Regular 
denizens of the Toronto Club include Viscount Hardinge and 
Canadian organized-crime figure Murray Koffler. Koffler's role 
as a retail outlet for Bronfman dope-running came into the public 
domain in 1976, when an associate's chain of retail drug stores 
was indicted for maintaining an amphetamine factory, and a 
national army of pill-pushers. That distinction did not prevent 
Koffler from attending the wedding of Britain's Princess Anne, 
or from maintaining his close friendship with Anne's husband. 
Captain Mark Phillips. (9) 

So far the Jacobs have been barred from marriage into the 
leading Hofjuden circles. However, the Jacobs have been 
awarded a respectable role in the train of the British monarchy, 
in a service capacity. The "crown jewel" of the Jacobs' opera- 
tions is the British firm, Letheby and Christopher Ltd.— the 
caterers, by Her Majesty's appointment, to "ail events with a 
royal presence." (10) Their concessions through Letheby and 
Christopher include the Tate Gallery, the Ascot Races, and other 
gathering places of the Royal Family and the British aristocracy. 
L & C, as it is affectionately known in Britain, was awarded the 
management of Ascot through the Bank of Norfolk, whose 
trustees include the Marquis of Abergavemy and Lord 
Tyron-thc Keeper of the Queen's Privy Purse, third in aristo- 
cratic rank to the Keeper of the Queen's Horse, and the Keeper of 
the Queen's Bedchamber. 

Apart from its royal honors, the Jacobs subsidiary manages 12 
other racetracks in Great Britain including the national track at 
Liverpool, the site of the Grand National, and Wembly Stadium, 
Britain's equivalent of Madison Square Garden. 



i 

1 



5 



I 









ORGANIZED CRIME 



337 



More than their retailing services for British dope-peddlers, 
however, accounts for the Jacobs family's honored position at the 
British court. They have conducted crucial—and danger- 
ous—political errands for the British oligarchy over a period of 
years. One such mission involved the successful sabotage of 
Richard Nixon's 1072 plan for detente with the Soviet Union. 
Their instrument for the act of sabotage— the man whose 
presidential campaign they funded lavishly — was Senator Scoop 
Jackson. 

- "Scoopsic," Max Jacobs once said, "is the best friend Israel 
has in the Congress." Max and brother Jeremy were funders of 
their torpedo's run for the White House. 01) 

Jackson authored the " Jackson-Vanik" Amendment to destroy 
the effectiveness of Nixon's 1972 treaty for expanded trade and 
scientific cooperation, which rested, among other things, on 
American credits for Siberian development. Jackson's operation 
prevented the United States from extending any credits to the 
Soviet Union until the Soviets "liberalized" their Jewish emigra- 
tion policy. (Under the Nixon Administration, such emigration 
had already increased fourfold.) 

The Jacobs brothers had hamstrung a treaty the British Crown 
viewed as a mortal enemy, one tho Rothschild-owned London 
Economist denounced as a "waltz of the elephants. 11 Jackson has 
continued to work as a pawn of the Jacobs crime family, advocat- 
ing, among other projects, a military alliance with and weapons 
sales to China, Britain's partner in world dope traffic. 

In the Jacobs group, America has its homegrown version of the 
Green Gangs, the fifth column Britain used to destroy China. 



Working for the HongShang 

From available evidence, the British oligarchy rates the 
Jacobs group's political usefulness as an intermediary for 
control over organized crime sufficiently important to make 
major efforts to rebuild the Jacobs* tarnished image. The prize 
that motivates Britain in this regard is the Buffalo-based Marine 



336 



DOPE. INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



339 



Midland Bank, which the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank now 
wants to buy out. 

From the American side the most important "inside agents" 
pushing the HongShang takeover are Leonard Rochwarger and 
Paul Schoelkopf, since 1973 the closest business associates of 
Max and Jermy Jacobs. 02) Rochwarger is president of First- 
mark Corporation, a heavy equipment leasing company and the 
American leg of an international conglomerate controlled by 
Britain's most important Hofjuden, the Rothschilds and Sebag- 
Montefiores. 

Rochwarger was brought into the deal at a Paris meeting in 
1971 with Edmond de Rothschild and Robin Sebag-Montefiore, 
who represented, respectively, the Isrop S.A. of Luxembourg and 
the Gilsyd Corporation of Liechtenstein. Under an intricate 
merger arrangement, Rochwarger emerged from the meeting as 
president of a new international subsidiary of the Rothschild and 
Montefiore companies, Israel-American Leasing of Tel Aviv, 
now the largest firm of its type in Israel. 

Rochwarger is an old associate of Max Jacobs ; both sit on the 
board of the Joint Distribution Committee, the funding center for 
American Zionist organizations. In addition, Rochwarger is the 
director of the National Jewish Centers and Youth Programs 
both in the United States and Canada, a regional board member 
of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, and fundraising 
chairman of the United Jewish Appeal. 

Paul Schoelkopf, another Buffalo-based Zionist, is leading the 
local campaign in support of HongShang's bid for Marino 
Midland. Schoelkopf is chairman of Buffalo's Niagara Share 
Corporation, an investment company that pools the resources of 
wealthy Local investors for large investments. Among Niagara's 
holdings is 246.000 shares in HongShang stock. Its other holdings 
include investments in the Swire family's Pacific A Corporation, 
and 400.000 shares in two Hong Kong holding companies, Cheung 
Kong Holdings Ltd., and the trading company Hutchinson 
Whampoa. also linked to HongShang. 

Another Schoelkopf investment vehicle is the $250 million per 
year food wholesaling-retailing group, Niagara Frontier 
Services, whose chairman is Armand Castellani, a member of 
Marine Midland's board of directors. A merger is currently in 



- 
■ 

7 
& 

i 1 



k 
§ 



i 



f 



I 

i 



■i 



process between Niagara Frontier Services and Sportsystems. 
which would double the stated "legitimate" revenue base of the 
Jacobs family empire. 

If HongShang receives the Marine Midland Bank from the 
hands of Max Jacobs, the link between the retail cash laundering 
facilities of the American mob and the wholesale financing of the 
international dope traffic will bo complete. As noted in Part II, 
Section 1, it will also complete the British oligarchy's takeover of 
the last remaining offshore center not wholly in its possession, 
Panama. 



Jacobs joins I ntertel 



In the aftermath of Congressman Steiger's investigation. 
Sportsystems underwent a corporate personnel reorganization. 
The result was that Sportsystems established an interface with 
the center of the crime syndicates and the reincarnated Assas- 
sination Bureau— Resorts International and its subsidiary, 
InterteL 

The entire executive team and legal staff brought into Sport- 
systems in 1975 was made up exclusively of veterans of the 
Kennedy Justice Department— the same Kennedy Justice De- 
partment that sent the man who is now president of Intertel, 
Robert Peloquin, to Buffalo, to 'J investigate" the Emprise crime 

syndicate ! 

In early 1 975, Donald Carmichael, a Kennedy Democrat who had 
served as a delegate both at the 1964 and 1968 Democratic conven- 
tions, as well as on the President's War on Poverty panel , beca me 
the president of Sportsystems. Carmichael ushered in a dozen 
Kennedy Justice Department hands over the next two years. 

In 1076, Max and Jeremy Jacobs' close friend and "business 
associate 1 ' Max Fisher released the general counsel of his own 
corporation. United Brands (formerly United Fruit) , so that he 
could accept Jacobs* offer of the post of general counsel to Sport- 
systems. Before his employment at United Brands, Stanley Mills 
had been a Justice Department aide to Attorney General Robert 
Kennedy. (13) 

In 1977. when the Bolles murder temporarily threatened to 



340 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



341 



bring Emprise-Sportsystems under criminal investigation, 
Horace S. Webb joined the firm as public relations director. 
Webb, who assisted the Water gating of Richard Nixon on behalf 
of the Kennedy machine, had previously been Deputy Public 
Information Director for the Justice Department and later press 
secretary for Attorney General Elliot Richardson. 

By the time the facelift of Sportsystems was finished, four 
other Kennedy Administration officials— each a member of 
Robert Kennedy's "secret team"— were brought into the firm's 
legal division: 

Half the Kennedy "old boys" had moved into Resorts 
International and Intertel; the other half went over to the Jacobs 
group , for the sa me type of a ss ign ment . 

Heading the "intertel Team" at Sportsystems is Henry 
Peterson, the former chief of the Organized Crime and 
Racketeering Division of the Kennedy Justice Department. At 
Camelot, Peterson was the superior of Robert Peloquin. now 
president of Intertel. 

Peterson's entire staff from the old Robert Kennedy days came 
with him. At Sportsystems, his chief aides are William Bittman, 
Daniel Hoi I man, and Thomas Kennedy. Kennedy worked for 
Peterson in the Organised Crime Division of the Department of 
Justice. Their big assignment in the old days came when 
Peterson sent them to New York State— to investigate the mob 
connections of Emprise! 



1 1 



Bagman" Max Fisher 



Max Fisher, today the chairman of United Brands, is the 
acknowledged "kingmaker" in the Michigan Republican Party, 
and a political power nationally. As president of the United 
Jewish Appeal, president of the Jewish Welfare Fund, and honor- 
ary chairman of the American Jewish Committee, Fisher holds 
rank next to his close friends Max and Jeremy Jacobs and the 
Bronfman brothers as one of the leading lights of the Zionist 
Lobby in North America. Fisher is also Henry Kissinger's 
contact man in the Michigan-Ohio area, and until recently was 
national fundratsing chairman for the Republican Party. 



- 



S 



■\ 



I 



Those are Impressive credentials for a man who got his start as 
"bagman" for Prohibition's "Purple Gang/' Max's job was to 
run advance payments for Bronfman liquor across the Canadian 
border and secure advance deliveries of Bronfman "rotgut" to 
the speakeasies that dotted Michigan's auto towns. Today, Max's 
headquarters, the Fisher Building, is owned by the Bronf mans. 

Today Midwest law enforcement officials name Max Fisher as 
the prime candidate for arrest and conviction as the kingpin of 
the vast narcotics trade in the Midwest— including the tons of 
drugs that pour into the auto belt. Yet no indictments have been 
forthcoming. Freuhauf Trucking Company, based in both 
Canada and the United States, provides one channel for large- 
scale drug smuggling, these officials report. Max Fisher is a 
Freuhauf board member and large shareholder. Knowledge of 
Fisher's drug connection even includes the various parking tot 
"truck stops " — adjacent to Fisher's Detroit suburban head- 
quarters — that are believed to serve as transshipment points for 
heroin, cocaine, and marijuana, Fisher's privately owned 
Marathon Oil Company, barging crude oil into the Midwest from 
ports of call in South America, is also suspected of joining 
Fisher's United Brands in running the "Silver Triangle" drug 
traffic. 

Since its founding by the New Orleans Macheca mob and 
Montefiore-sponsored Jewish immigrant Zemurray, United 
Fruit-United Brands has dominated both licit and illicit trade in 
the Central and Latin American countries that produce cocaine 
and marijuana for the American market In those same coun- 
tries, the Israeli financial and intelligence networks identified 
earlier with the narcotics traffic have become the principal 
supplier of weapons. In Central America and in Chile, Israel has 
replaced the U.S. as the leading arms merchant for United 
Brands' "banana republic" governments. 04) 

That none of the evidence has brought action against Fisher 
raises some interesting questions about who controls Michigan 
politics. Fisher, as noted, is not only the powerbroker for the 
Republican Party, but along with the Socialist International 
affiliate, the United Auto Workers (UAW), is on top of the ghetto 
and in-plant crime machine and Maoist-environmentalist gangs 
that push drugs and terrorism. This was the conclusion drawn 



If 



342 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



343 



from an investigation involving federal law enforcement officials 
after a July 1978 attempted assassination of U.S. Labor Party 
Chairman Lyndon LaRouchein Detroit. 

The "political cover" under which drugs and terror find their 
way into the floors of the auto plants is the Communist Labor 
Party of Michigan. This avowedly Maoist grouplet is an out- 
growth of the nest of agents provocateurs who incited the late 
1960s riots that left large sections of Detroit's working class dis- 
tricts in ruins. After the riots, Max Fisher and then-UAW Pres- 
ident Leonard Woodcock (now U.S. Emissary to the People's 
Republic of China) stepped in to found the New Detroit Corpora- 
tion as the "reforming" de facto ruling body over the region. New 

Detroit outflanked the constituency political machine in the city 
administration and police department, removing the chief 
impediment to the "liberal" proliferation of drugs, vote fraud, 
and fingertip-controlled political violence. The Communist Labor 
Party of Michigan provides the footsoldiers for all three. 

According to records on file with Detroit City Clerk, the 
Communist Labor Party is financed by Max Fisher's Zionist 
Lobby. Among the campaign contributors to its 1976 and 1978 
"electoral campaigns" are Avern Cohen, Fisher's personal 
attorney and his political lieutenant, and Richard Lobenthal, the 
head of the Michigan Anti-Defamation League of B'nai E'rith. 
The Communist Labor Party also gets money from a group 
called the Anti-Nazi Coalition, in which it joins the B'nai B'rith, 
and a Zionist umbrella group called the Jewish Community 
Council. The latter is financed by numerous Zionist philan- 
thropies including the Jewish Welfare Fund, and by thousands of 
dollars in UAW membership dues. (15) The Anti-Nazi Coalition 
services a string of storefronts, bookstores, and other commer- 
cial enterprises that dish out dope to the auto plants and ghettos. 



Dope, Inc. goes "legit 



»> 






The Jacobs family. Max Fisher, the Bronfman brothers: these 
figures stand behind organized crime, the drug traffic, and the 
systematic corruption of the political process in nearly every 



ft' 



;? 



precinct of the United States. A precise estimate cannot be given 
of the percentage of the $200 billion of narcotics revenues 
diverted into political corruption and disruption. But the nearly 
$1 billion the Jacobs family put up to oust Congressman Sam 
Steiger, the Bronfmans* multimillion dollar expenditure for 
political and economic warfare against the U.S. Labor Party, and 
the $1 million "war chest" that Resorts International assembled 
to put across legalized casino gambling in New Jersey by legisla- 
tive fiat, provide sufficient warning that the sums spent on illeg- 
itimate political activities exceed those spent under the Federal 
Election Law. 

Corruption of politicians is more flagrant, more public, than 
streetcorner soliciting by prostitutes. Take the case of St. Louis 
Representative William Clay, now treasurer of the Black Caucus 
in Congress. Clay was selected for his job by Morris Shenker. the 
owner of the Dunes and Sands casinos in Las Vegas and the 
attorney for Anthony Giordano in the 1972 federal case against 
Emprise. (W Clay's Black Caucus colleague Parren Mitchell of 
Baltimore, who has emerged as a leading spokesman for drug de- 
criminalization, is another. 

The roster of Britain's Green Gang thugs in the United States, 
stretching down to every populated center, is too extensive to 
bear further detail. The Jacobs, Bronfmans, Fishers have the 
same modus operandi: understand it, and nothing about organ- 
ized crime elsewhere will be difficult to understand. Once this 
operation is cracked, drug traffic and corruption in cities across 
the country can be broken, assembly-line fashion. 

Britain's agents of corruption are now beginning the final 
phase of opium warfare against the United States, as the dope- 
runners and money-launderers press for legalization of gambling 
and drug addiction. Under the transparent lie that legalization 
means the destruction of organized crime— rather than its en- 
thronement in the state capital—gambling has opened up in New 
Jersey, under the aegis of Meyer Lansky's Resorts International 
and Intertel. Dope, Incorporated is preparing, in effect, to take 
its "rightful place 1 ' at the top of the Fortune 500. The American 
Green Gangs are preparing the final "Shanghai Massacre" of the 
American people. 



344 



DOPE, INC. 



0RGANI2ED CRIME 



345 



6 



The Philadelphia Story 



A long trail of indictments, fines and press stories leads to one 
of the most dramatic case histories of Dope, Incorporated, and to 
Philadelphia, the City of Brotherly Love. Under the direction of 
old Philadelphia Quaker families, whose roots in the opium 
traffic go back to the first years after the American Revolution, 
and with the cooperation of one of Britain's oldest opium-running 
families, the Phiadelphia dope network can be charted from the 
wholesale production of illicit drugs down to the gutter. 

Tucked away in the towering Sun Oil building in downtown 
Philadelphia are the small corporate headquarters of an obscure 
firm known as Paco Pharmaceuticals. Paco has only one line of 
business: it packages roughly two-thirds of the amphetamine 
tablets sold in the United States, under contract from the old 
Quaker pharmaceuticals companies in the Philadelphia area, 
including Smith. Kline and French, Rohm and Haas, and 
Pennwalt It publishes no annual report or other information 
concerning its activities, except for one crucial fact: it is owned 
by Charterhouse Japhet. the present incarnation of the old 
Japhet family opium interests. Paco is also the source of most of 



344 



| 






t 



-I 



the "leakage" of amphetamines into illicit channels in the United 
States. (I) 

Federal agencies have tried to crack down on the Paco nexus 
for years, but have succeeded only in wrist-slapping its local 
collaborators. The record of citations of the amphetamine 
producers is lengthy. It includes: 

*A $200,000 fine imposed in October 1977 by the Drug 
Enforcement Administration on Pennwalt Pharmaceuticals, 
after Pennwalt was convicted of 17 counts of questionable 
practices in the production of medicines containing cocaine. 

*A 1972 accusation against Pennwalt by the predecessor 
organization of the Drug Enforcement Administration, the 
Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, involving Pennwalt's 
use of Mexican subsidiaries to provide illicit channels of drug 
traffic in the United States with amphetamines. The BNDD 
discovered major accounting discrepancies between the amounts 
of amphetamine Pennwalt claimed it shipped to Mexico and the 
amount of amphetamine that actually arrived in Mexico. 

*A recent order by the Food and Drug Administration 
compelling Pennwalt to close a warehouse housing opium, osten- 
sibly for manufacture into licit mor phone under federal license, 
due to "leakage" of the opium. 

*In November 1976. CBS's "Sixty Minutes" news feature 
program accused Pennwalt of marketing amphetamine-based 
diet pills, with the deliberate objective of creating a "hooked'* 
market of dependent amphetamine users. Commentator Mike 
Wallace cited a 1970 Pennwalt internal memorandum to 
substantiate this allegation. 

The hard evidence of illegal drug trafficking by the old-line 
drug firms in amphetamines, and strong suspicion of similar 
trafficking in cocaine and opium, is the starting point for a chain 
of control that ends with the retail drug trade, terrorism, and 
crime on the streets of Philadelphia, leading through individuals 
in high positions in the city's top banks and "charitable" 
foundations. A November 13, 1978, expose of the Philadelphia 
Foundation in the Philadelphia Daily News brought to public 
light the incriminating information that had, independently, been 
gathered by a U.S. Labor Party investigative team. 



f 



DOPE, INC. 



One James Boudine, a director of Pennwalt Pharmaceuticals, 
is the leading connection between the wholesale and street-level 
sides of Philadelphia's narcotics traffic. Unitl 1977 he was 
president of the First Pennsylvania Bank, in charge, among 
other things, of its support of the Philadelphia Foundation. 
Despite his departure from the president's suite, he remains on 
the board of directors and continues to direct the bank's "chari- 
table" activities. 

What First Pennsylvania's and other Philadelphia banks' 
funds went for became clear in the summer of 1978, when a 
member of a local leftist cult, known as "MOVE." killed a Phila- 
delphia policeman with an automatic rifle. Heavily oriented 
towards drugs and terrorism, MOVE is part of a family of similar 
groups that functions under the umbrella of the drug-oriented 
Movement for a New Society, one of the ugliest concoctions ever 
to appear on the streets of the United States. The Movement for a 
New Society and its more explicitly violence-prone outlets, such 
as MOVE, receive most of their funding from the Philadelphia 
Foundation and two associated funding conduits for the Quaker 
pharmaceuticals firm and the related Philadelphia banks. (3) 
The other conduits are the William Penn Foundation, controlled 
by the five members of the Haas pharmaceuticals family who sit 
on the foundation's board, and by the Philadelphia Yearly 
Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). 

The Yearly Meeting is no more a religious Quaker institution 
than Seagram Liquors or Emprise are religious Jewish institu- 
tions, but serves as a front for leading British-allied banking 
and chemical companies of Quaker origin. The funds of 
the Yearly Meeting are controlled by Robert Boudine— of the 
same Boudine family— in two secret accounts held at James 
Boudine's First Pennsylvania Bank, and shunted to undisclosed 
activities. Among known contributions is a $2,000 donation 
to the MOVE group, before the murder of the Philadelphia police- 
man attracted public attention. That contribution was only dis- 
covered after Philadelphia police moved in to clean out MOVE's 
headquarters, and discovered a receipt for $2,000 from the 
Yearly Meeting of the Friends in MOVE'S quarters. 

The Movement for a New Society is the biggest law 



. *• 



p t 



i ■. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



enforcement problem in the city of Philadelphia. Not only has it 
produced killers like those from MOVE, but its combination of 
pro-drug, pro-homosexuality, pro-pederasty, pro-environ- 
mentalist ideology provides an environment that breeds terror- 
ists. According to its own publications, the Movement for a New 

Society provided the cadre who led the "Clamshell Alliance" 
demonstration at New Hampshire's Seabrook nuclear reactor 

site in 1 977. New Hampshire police conducted mass arrests of the 
demonstrators after receiving information that the demon- 
strators planned terrorist action. 

This antisocial organization receives its funds from the pharm- 
aceutical firms and their bankers, through the Philadelphia 
Foundation, the William Penn Foundation, and the Yearly 
Meeting's $25 million secret slush fund. The William Penn 
Foundation funds the Movement to the tune of $40,000 a year. The 
foundation was established by Rohm and Haas. The Philadelphia 
Foundation provided the Movement's funding conduit, Neighbor- 
hood Resources West, with $6 t 472 in recorded funds in 1977. That 
foundation was founded under the auspices of officials of the 
Fidelity Bank of Philadelphia Banking Corporation. On the 
Fidelity Bank's board is John C. Haas of Rohm and Haas; its 
chairman is Howard C. Petersen, who also sits on the board of 
Rohm and Haas. 

How little the operations of the Philadelphia Society of Friends 
resemble the religious principles of Quakerism is evident from 
one fact: their Philadelphia offices house the headquarters of 1) 
the Venceremos Brigade, the mother organization for the terror- 
ist Weathermen: 2) the Susan Saxe Defense Committee, which 
conducted legal efforts on behalf of Weatherwoman bank robber 
Susan Saxe; and 3) the Puerto Rican Socialist Party, which offi- 
cially supports the terror-bombings of the so-called FALN. The 
"Religious Society of Friends" designation is a misnomer. The 
Philadelphia Quakers operate through the American Friends 
Service Committee, an organization that religious Quakers have 
despised since its founding. 

The American Friends Service Committee's spawn, the Move- 
ment for a New Society, funded through Quaker accounts, is 
explicitly pro-violence. One of its publications, a 1976 pamphlet 



DOPE, INC, 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



349 



entitled "Moving* Towards a New Society," says: "There are a 
number, perhaps a growing number, of completely sincere 
humanist revolutionaries who believe that violence is necessary, 
although regrettable, and that only through armed struggle can 
the powerful American Empire be toppled... it is important that 
we express solidarity with all who share our goals,*' e.g. Susan 
Saxcand the Venceremos Brigade. 

The Quaker-funded Movement for a New Society also published 
a series of frankly pornographic manuals for their "revolution- 
aries," including such titles as "Gay Oppression and 
Liberation," "Liberating Sexuality," and "Take Heart— All. 
Those in the Struggle." These publications advocate pederasty, 
"multifile sexual relationships," and public masturbation. One of 
these publications, "Gay Oppression and Liberation," reports 
that "non-gays in the Movement for a New Society have made 
great strides recently in reducing their complicity with hetero- 
sexism." This is not only a breeding ground for the dope traffic 
and terrorism, but an expression of the cult existence prescribed 
by the Original masters of the narcotics traffic (see Part IV). And 
it is the bottom line for the William Penn and Philadelphia 
Foundations. 

Charterhouse Japhet's presence in the middle of this mid- 
Atlantic zoo is the link back to the highest levels of Dope, 
Incorporated, the queer alliance of Friends-who-are-not-Friends 
and Jews-who-are-not-Jews. The leading Quaker banking 
families in Philadelphia allied themselves with the Baring bank 
and the dope traffic in the first years of the American Republic. 
The top British banks include old Quaker families, who have been 
represented in the United States for two centuries. Britain's 
largest bank, Barclays, founded in its present form in 1835, has 
been in Quaker hands for 200 years. Its representative David 
Barclay lived in Philadelphia during the 18th century, at the 
same time that the Baring Bank set up shop there. Barclays' 
hoard, as noted earlier* includes five members of the Most 
Venerable Order of St John of Jerusalem, the chivalric dirty 
tricks arm of the British and related monarchies. 

Charterhouse Japhet today is controlled by Barclays Bank, 
through an intermediary. Barclays controls Slough Properties, 






*. 






■-' 



which functions as the de facto parent organization of Charter- 
house Japhet. Through its hold on the Japhet family interests. 
Barclays controls Israeli finance, by way of Ernst Israel Japhet. 
the chairman of Israel's largest finance house, Bank Leumi. 
Bank Lcumi has iust applied to the American regulatory 
authorities for permission to open a branch office in 

Philadelphia. 
Consequently, the joint appearance of "Quaker" and "Jewish" 

financiers at the center of the Philadelphia Story is no accident. 

Neither of them have anything more to do with the two religions 

than does the Movement for a New Society's perverted gibberish. 

Under the control of the British oligarchy and the Order of St. 

John, they are the instruments of a British subversion plan in 

Philadelphia that, in the words of the Movement for a New 

Society's badly printed tract, wants to "topple the American 

Empire. 1 ' 



I 



350 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



351 



Notes 



1. THE BRONFMAN GANG 

1. Canadian Jewish Congress Report. 1967-68, in com me mora lion of 
Samuel Bronfman. 

2. Ibid. 

3. Peter C. Newman, Bronfman Dynasty, The Rothschilds of the New 

World (Toronto: McClelland and Stewart Ltd., 1978). pp. 66-73. 

4. Newman, Bronfman Dynasty, p. 04. 

5. Hank Messick, Lansky (New York: Berkley Medallion Books, 1971), 
pp. 230-31 

6. James H. Gray, Booze (Toronto. Macmillan Co. of Canada. Alger 
Press, 1972). 

7. Newman, Bronfman Dynasty, p. 127, 

8. Russell Sage Foundation, 1907-1946 <New York: Russell Sage Founda- 
tion, 1947). Volume L Loanshark operation surveys were also conducted 
in Illinois and Kentucky. 

9. Hank Messick, Secret File (New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1969), 
pp. 277-78. 

10. Torrio's rise to power has been chronicled in hundreds of books and 
press accounts dealing with the history of organized crime and with the 
"Capone" Chicago organization in particular. See Don Maclean. 
Pictorial History of the Mafia (New York: Pyramid Books. 1974) ; Ralph 
Saierno and John S. Tompkins, The Crime Confederation (New York: 
Doubleday & Company, Inc. 1969); Martin A. Gosch and Richard 
Hammer. The Last Testament of Lucky Luciano (New York: Dell 
Publishing Co., Inc.. 1974). Additional insight was provided through 
numerous interviews with law enforcement officials at the U.S. Customs 
Bureau and Drug Enforcement Administration. 

11. Maclean, Pictorial History of the Mafia, p. 150; sec also Donald R. 
Cressey, Theft of the Nation: The Structure and Operations of Organized 
Crime in America (New York: Harper and Row, 1969), pp. 29-53. 

12. Maclean, Pictorial History of the Mafia, p. 461. Figures vary for the 
death toll reached during the wai* period; however, on the night that New 
York boss Salvatore M^ranxanu — September 11. 1931 — was 
assassinated and the immediate 48-hour period following, it is estimated 
that 40 gang leaders were killed in the overall purge. See also: Donald R. 
Cressey. Theft of the Nation, pp. 29-53, and Peter Maas, The Valachi 
Papers (New York: Bantam Books, 19GS) . 

13. Messick, Secret File, pp. 96-97. Corroboration of the analysis 
presented here was provided through numerous and exhaustive 



... 

•IT 



* 



interviews with law enforcement officials at the DEA and U.S. Customs 

Bureau. 

14, Messick, f-ansfty. pp. 90, 97-9R. Additional corroboration was provided 

by DEA officials in interviews in December 1977. 

15. Report from Narcotics Division Agent Ralph Oyler to Narcotics 
Division Chief Levi Mutt, March 30. 1926 (DEA Library. Washington, 

D.C.). 

1G. Jonathan Marshall. "Opium and Politics of Gangsterism in Na- 
tionalist China— 1927-45." Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars 3 G976) : 

19-48. 

17. Ibid. 

18. Henry Aubin. Who Owns Montreal. 

19. tbid. 

20. Newman, Bronfman Dynasty, pp. 55-61 . 

21. Starkman stores' connections to Koffler were widely publicized at the 
time in the Toronto Globe and Mail 

22. See also Newman. Bronfman Dynasty, pp. 167-169. 

23. The Washington Post, November 6, 1978. p. 2. 

24. Newman. Bronfman Dynasty, p. 233. 

25. ibid., p. 231. 

26. Ibid., p. 225. 

27. Ibid., p. 232. 
23. Ibid., p. 227. 
29. Ibid., p. 227. 

2 THE KENNEDYS: ORGANIZED CRIME IN GOVERNMENT 

1. Financial Campaign Report filed by the Kennedy for Re-Election 
Committee, 1976. with the Clerk of the Senate. 

2. Pictorial History of Mafia ; see also Clark R. Moltenhoff, Strike Force: 
Organized Crime and the Government (Englcwood Cliffs, NX: Prentice- 
Hall. Inc., 1972). 

3. Senate Committee Hearings on Organized Crime and Narcotics, 1963. 

4. Financial Campaign Report filed by the Kennedy for Re-Election 

Committee. 1976. 

5. David E. Koskoff. Joseph P. Kennedy: A Life and Times (Englewood 
Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, Inc. 1974>, p. 9. Additional insight and 
information on Kennedy was provided through interviews with law 

en f ore e m en t off ic ial s. 

6. Koskoff. Joseph P. Kennedy, p. 19. 

7. Ibid., pp- 28. 30. 

S. I Did., p. 28: see also William Stevenson, A Man Called Intrepid (New 

York: Ballantine Bonks. 1976), p. 325. 

9. Interview with DEA officials, December 1977; sec also Messick. Secret 

File, p 197 and Koskoff, Joseph P. Kennedy, p. 53. 



352 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



353 



10. Koskoff. Joseph P. Kennedy, p. 53. 

11. ibfd.. p. J15. 

12. Ibid., pp. 166, 304-05. 

13. Ibid., p. 378. 

14. Sir John Wheeler- Bennett, Special Relationships: America in Peace 
and War <New York: St Martin. 1976), pp. 34-35; see also Koakoff, 
Joseph P. Kennedy, pp. 403-4. 

15. Wheeler Bennett, Special Relationships, pp. 34-35. 

16. Victor Navasky, Kennedy Justice (New York: Atheneum, 1970), p. 404. 

17. Ibid. 

IS. Messick, Lansky, pp. 241-42. This viewpoint was also shared by 
numerous law enforcement officials who were interviewed in the course 
of researching the history of organized crime. 

19. Who's Who in Canada. 

20. Harold Mncmi\l&n,AttheEndof the Day 1961-63 (London: MacMillan 
London, Ltd., 1973), 6:359-1)0. According to Macmillan: "The President 
did not want to give us Polaris on political grounds, for fear of upsetting 
all the European nations. . . . The arrangement finally agreed was that 
we should be supplied with the Polaris missile. . . . Our nuclear fleet was 
to be 'assigned* to NATO, except in cases 'where Her Majesty's govern- 
ment may decide that superior national interests are at stake.*. . . Three 
days' hard negotiating — nearly four days in reality. The Americans 

pushed us very hard. . . the discussions wt>re protracted and fiercely 

contested. ..." 

21. Ibid. 

22. Koskoff. Joseph P. Kennedy, p. 439. 



3. BRITAIN'S ASSASSINATION BUREAU: PERMWDEX 

1. The former Shaw associate was Gordon Novel. Novel, an associate of 
Clay Shaw and Carlos Marcello, was himself under investigation by Jim 
Garrison for possible involvement in the Kennedy assassination 
conspiracy. An expert in electronic devices (including highly 
sophisticated surveillance equipment), Novel was employed by the 
Marcello- Perm index group in New Orleans and apparently also by the 
CIA through its Miami-based Double-Chek commercial front. Novel was 
interviewed by the authors on several occasions during spring-summer 
1977. In October or November 1977, Novel was arrested in an Atlanta. Ga. 
suburb on charges of violation of bail conditions. The conditions were set 
by a New Orleans Parish Judge after a 1976 arrest on charges of 
conspiring to burn down a commercial building in that city. Novel is 
presently in New Orleans Parish jaii awaiting trial on the bomb-arson 
plot charges. 

2. A series of articles appearing in Paesa Sera on March 4, 12, 14, 1967; 
see also Los Echos and Le Figaro during spring 1962 for numerous news 






and editorial references to Perm index's role in the assassination 
attempts against President de Gaulle. 

3. Anonymous. The Permindex Papers, 1970, p. 58. This unpublished 
manuscript was reviewed by the authors on condition that the title of the 
document and the biographical material provided on its author would be 
kept confidential. The Permindex Papers is not the actual title of the 
manuscript. The author or authors used documents prepared by the 
Justice Department and Treasury Department of the United States 
government. Additionally, they cited public sources including magazine 
articles, newspaper articles, and books. In cases where the original 
sources were cross-checked, the original sources will be cited directly. 

4. Ibid., pp. 141-49. 

5. Louis Wiznitrer, "Will Garrison's Inquiry into Kennedy Assassination 
Lead to Montreal?" Le Devoir, March 16, 1967, Montreal; also Canadian 
Dimension, September-October. 1967 (reprint). 

fi. Giuseppe Pantaleone. "An Interview." Panorama. April. 1970. 

7. Anon., Permindex Papers, p. 164. 

8. From an unpublished interview with an anonymous Rome-based 
foreign correspondent conducted in Rome, August 15-16, 1978. 

9. Wiznitzer. "Will Garrison's Inquiry.'.' 

10. Ibid. 

11. Ibid. 

12. In Italy, for example, the head of the Order of St. John Ambulance 
Squad was directly implicated in the assassination" of former Italian 
President Aldn Moro. Baron Johann von Schwartzenberg was under 
intensive investigation by Italian authorities as the suspected master- 
mind of the Moro murder. Schwartzenberg was exempt from any 
prosecution, search, or interrogation due to his diplomatic status as an 
emissary of the Sovereign Order of St. John, Order of Malta, which is 
recognized by many governments, including the Italian government, as a 
sovereign state. Schwartzenberg died within a month of Mnro's death in 
an automobile accident. 

13. Aaort., Permindex Papers, p. Ml. 

14. Ibid., pp. 231-32. 

15. Ibid, p. 161. 

16. Allan J. Weberman, Coup d'Btat in America (New York: Joseph 
Okpaku, 1975) pp. 39-40. 

17. Anon., Permindex Papers, o. 73. The name of the courier was 
Maurice Gatlin. According to testimony delivered by Jerry Milton Brooks 
before the New Orleans Grand Jury investigating the assassination of 
Kennedy. Gatlin was a "'transporter" for both the CIA and Division Five 

of the FBI. 

18 Virtually all the book-length material on Sir William Stephenson and 
the British Security Coordination-Special Operations Executive is 
"official cover story" commissioned by the SOE to provide limited 
exposure to aspects of its operations while withholding the most illegal 



I 




354 



DOPE, INC. 



OHGAN1ZED CRIME 



355 



and anti American activities. Two books thai fit this "official cover 
story" description, but which provide numerous references to 
Stephenson's methods of operation, including his penetration into every 
level of the U.S. military command with his SOE agents, are: H. Mont- 
gomery Hyde, Room 3S03 (New York: Ballantinc Bonks, J%2) and 
William Stevenson, A Man Called Intrepid <New York: Ballantine Books, 
1976). 

19. Richard Deacon. A History of the British Secret Service (New York: 
Taplfnger Publishing Company, 1970) , p. 29S._ 

20. Anon. , Permindex Papers, p. 265. 

21. Ibid., p. 196. 

22. Rodney Campbell, The Luciano Project <New York: McGraw-Hill 
Book Company, 1977) : see a (so Julian Semyonov, "Capriccio Siciliano," 
Ogonyok (Moscow), October-November, 1978. 

23. Julian Semyonov, "Capriccio Siciliano," reprinted in English 
translation from Ogonyok in Executive intelligence Review 43 (1978): 38. 

24. As reported in the Permindex Papers, pp. 46-51, Permindex included 
among its investors: Morris Dalitz, the organized crime czar of Cleve- 
land and Las Vegas and a personal associate of Lansky dating back to 
Prohibition: Joseph Bonanno, the New York City and Phoenix mobster 
who took control over the New York City-based Lionel Corporation and 
used it as a business front for a variety of criminal activities that included 
investment in Permindex; Carlos Prio Socarras, the President of Cuba 
from 1948*52 who subsequently became the chief of Meyer Lansky's 
gambling racket in Havana until the Castro takeover. 

25. Messick. Lansky, p. 241. 

26. Canadian Who's Who (Toronto: TransCanada Press) Vols. 7, ft, 9, 10; 
and (Toronto: Who's Who Canada Publishers) Vols. 11, 12, 13. 

27. The most comprehensive documentation of the bankrupting of BCI is 
contained in an unpublished report by Richard Freeman. "The Case of 
Investors Overseas Services: Dirty Money International," August 12, 
1978; see also Robert Hutchinson, Vesco (New York: Pracger Publishers, 
1974) . 

28. Messick, Lansky, p. 24B. 

29. Anon., Permindex Papers, p. !05: and Messick, Lansky, p. 248. 

30. George Nichols, "Exclusive: The Mossad — Who Is Behind This 
Secret, Global Gang of Political Terrorists Who Intimidate Presidents?" 
The Spotlight 39 ( 1 978) : 13-1 6. 

31 . The Econom ics Department of the University of Vienna, known as the 
Vienna School, was founded as a joint project of the British Fabian Soci- 
ety, the Rothschilds, and the Austrian royal Hapsburg family. In 1868, the 
British Foreign Office established the Royal Colonial Institute at 
the initiative of the Sassoon family, among others. Its principal sources of 
funding were the Hongkong and Shanghai Corp. and Barclays Bank. The 
head of the institute. Alfred Marshall, was also the chief economist for 
Cecil Rhodes- According to the Official History of the Fabian Society. 



u 



t 



:;. 






K 



■ 



from 1884-92, Marshall, in collaboration with Fabian Executive members 
Beatrice and Sidney Webb, founded three institutes of economics. These 
three institutions U> this day produce the membership for the Order of St 

John's Mont Pelerin Society. 

The Vienna School was established in 1884 on the strength of London 
School of Economics publications building the credibility of Karl von 
Menger, head of the University of Vienna Economics Department and the 
personal economic advisor to the Hapsburg court. Meneer. an 
impoverished nobleman working as a journalist, had been turned into the 
personal economic tutor of Hapsburg Crown Prince Rudolph in 1876 by 
Baron Albert Rothschild, head of the family's Vienna House. Each of 
Menger's disciples was a Rothschild recruit from the Hapsburg nobility: 
Eugcn B6*hm von Bawerk was a member of the House of Lords and three 
times Austrian finance minister from 1896-1904; Friedrich von Weiser. 
also a Lord, was the Minister of Commerce. 

In addition to Tibor Rosenbaum, some of the leading products of the 
Vienna School are Friedrich von Hayek, Herbert von Mises. and Nikolai 

Bukharin. , 

32. Who's Who in Great Britain; see also 1977 Annual Report of the Bank 

Leumi. ._,. ,„ . ■ .«.,,, 

33 The U.S. government has recently gone on record as believing that 

David Graiver is indeed still alive. Graiver achieved notoriety when his 

American Bank and Trust Company in New York City went bankrupt in 

1976, amid charges that Graiver had siphoned off some $50 million from 

the batik and then disappeared. A federal indictment was sought and 
gotten. When Graiver was reported to have been killed in a plane crash, 
tho.e charges were (bopped. In June 1978, the U.S. Attorney for the South 
District of New York petitioned for the charges to be reinstated. The 
petition was granted the same month. See The New York Times and the 

Wall Street Journa / of June 340. 1978. 

Rosenbaum was a board member of the American Bank and Trust, 
which acted as the conduit for various illegal payments - including the $5 
million in bribes that Graiver paid to Argentine officials during M7S to 
"persuade" them to purchase Canada's Candu nuclear reactor system 
rather than the originally preferred Westinghouse nuclear reactor 
Graiver received these funds from the Canadian government s official 
broker in that matter, Israeli broker and foreign intelligence operative 

Shaul Eisenberg. . « 

Graiver, Eisenberg, Rosenbaum. American Bank and Trust chairman 
Abe Feinberg, were all proteges of Nahum Goldmann, the man who 
brought most of them out of Europe through his 1938 deal with Hemnch 
Himmler to select out Jews from Nazi Germany and occupied Austria. 
Goldmann, the long-time head of the World Jewish Congress^ was 
recently replaced by Chicago-based partner of Salomon Brothers. Phillip 
Klutznik; he is the man who sold the American Bank Trust to Graiver - 
he ran it on behalf of the Israeli government — in 1875. 
34. Who's Who in Canada; see also Wizniuer. "Will Garrison's Inquiry. 



356 



DOPE, INC 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



357 



35. Col. Sir Edwin King and Sir Harry Luke, The Knights of St John in 
the British Realm — Being the Official History of the Most Venerable 
Order of the Hospital of St John of Jerusalem (London: Hills & Lacy, 
1924). 

36. See New York Times Index citation on "Banque de Credit Inter- 
nationale" and "Tibor Rosenhaum," particularly covering the period of 
September through December, 1H74, for numerous references to the 
exposure of Bank Hapoalim and related institutions' involvement in 
money laundering ; see also Katherine Burdman, "The British Crown's 
Secret Financial Capability: Israeli Banking," Executive Intelligence 
Review 44 (ISIS). 

37. Criton Zoakos, et al., "The Black International Terrorist Assassina- 
tion Plot lo Kill Lyndon H'. LaRouche, Jr.," Campaigner Special Report 
(New York: Campaigner Publications, 1977), p. 29. 

36. Anon. , Permindex Papers, p. 87. 

39. Ladislas Farago, Aftermath: Martin Bormann and the Fourth Reich 
(New York: Simon & Schuster, 1974) ; see also William Stevenson, The 
B&rmana Brotherhood (New York: Bantam Hooks, Inc.. 1973>. 

40. Two Rome interviews conducted from August 10-16, 197R, with promi- 
nent Italian journalists and one Austrian journalist who request to 
remain anonymous. The interviews were conducted by members of the 
Rome staff of the New Solidarity Press Service at the request of the 
authors . 

41. MaxGollo, Mussolini's Italy: Twenty Years of the Fascist Era (New 
York: M a cm i 11a n Company, 1973). 

42. Anon,,Permindex Papers, p. 97. 

43. Ibid., p. 178. 

44. Ibid., p. 213. 

45. Ibid., p. 212. 

46. Edward J . Epstein, Agency of Fear — Opiates and Political Power in 
America (New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1977). 



4. PERMINDEX UNVEILED; RESORTS INTERNATIONAL 

1. Hutchinson, Vesco. 

2. Messick, Lansky, pp. 221-51. Lansky had had his eye on the Bahamas 
since the 1940s, but his. attention was then fixed on his Cuban and Las 
Vegas casino empires. (Castro's refusal to play ball with the Hofjuden 
mob allegedly inspired Lansky to issue a Si million 'contract" on 
Castro's life) With the 1959 fall of the Batista government the Bahama 
option became an imperative. Thus, it was no accident that the British 
gave the go-ahead for legalized gambling not only for their Caribbean 

holdings but in Britain as well. Messick reports (p, 228): "All lhal was 

needed in 1960 was to find a semircspectablc front from which he (Lansky 

— ed.) could operate." 

3. Ibid., p. 228. 



* 

■I: 

I 

! 



t 



A" 



f 






.• 



I 



j. 



■r 









■ 
■ 

i 



4. Ibid.. p. 229. 

5. ibid.. PP- 230-32: see also Jim Hougan, "A Surfeit of Spies, Harpers, 
December 1974. p. 58; Frank J. Priai. "Concern Fights Crime in Busi- 
ness/' New York Times, July 26, 1970. Business Section, p. l.p.H. 

6. Messick, Lansky, pp. 230-231, 235. 

7. Ibid., pp. 232-233. 

6. Ibid., p. 232; see also Hougan, "Surf eit of Spies," pp. 58, 63. 

9. Hougan, *'Surfeit of Spies." pp. SB, 63. 

10. Hutchinson, Vesco: see also James Hougan, Spooks: The Haunting of 
America - The Private Use of Secret Agents (New York: William 
Morrow and Co.. 197S). pp. 39D-392. 

1 1 . Hougan, " Surfeit of Spies, " p. 54. 

12. Ibid., pp. 68-6?; see also Hutchinson, Vesco, 

13. Hougan, "Surfeit of Spies." pp. 54 ? 56: see also Prial, "Concern Fights 

Crime," p. 11. 

14. Hougan, "Surfeit of Spies," p. 66; Hougan's information is corrob- 
orated by the authors* interviews with law enforcement officials. 

5. THE JACOBS FAMILY'S EMPRISE: SPORTS AND CRIME 

1. Testimony of labor racketeer James Plumeri (Jimmy Doyle) before 
the McClellan Subcommittee on Criminal Laws and Procedures ; see also 
Congressman Sam Steiger's insertion into the Congressional Record of 
the 91st Congress, "Emprise: A Lesson in Corporate Calumny." 

2. Testimony of Plumeri before the McClellan Subcommittee on Criminal 

Laws and Procedures. 

3 From their positions in Cleveland and Buffalo, the Jacobs family was a 
Bronfman link into the United Stotes in alliance with the Reinfeld Syndi- 
cate and the Big Seven Combine <see Section 1). 

4 "Emprise: A Lesson in Corporate Calumny," 91st Congressional 
Record, p. 5888: "Emprise: A Little More of Hie Iceberg Exposed." 91st 
Congressional Record, p. 6830- 

5 Many of the Justice Department officials who worked with Robert 
Kennedy in the "GetHoffa" campaign turned up playing supporting roles 
in forcing Richard Nixon out of office, particularly when Nixon demon- 
strated a commitment to go after organized crime. This includes most 

especially Horace S . Webb 

6. Jeremy Jacobs admitted to the activities directed against Steiger 
under questioning during 1972 hearings of the House Select Committee on 

7. U.s! Labor Party Legal Division, "Evidence to Overturn the Fraud- 
ulent Election of James Earl Carter/ 1 Campaigner Special Report (New 
York: Campaigner Publications. November 26, WW>; U.S. Labor Party 
Legal Division, "Conclusive Evidence of Carter Vow Theft Goes Before 
Federal Court in Ohio and New York." Campaigner Special Report (New 



I 



356 



DOPE, INC. 



ORGANIZED CRIME 



359 



York: Campaigner Publications, December 9. 1976). The Committee for 
Fair Elections, a nonpartisan citizens group representing participation 
from the U.S. Labor Party, the Democratic. Republican, and American 
Independent parlies, initiated official investigations and selective court 
actions in Pennsylvania. Wisconsin. New York, and Ohio as the result of 
accumulated evidence of overwhelming fraud in the general elections of 
November, 1$76. In addition to extensive regional press coverage of the 
specific legal actions, the investigations and legal actions received 
national coverage on CBS television news (The Seven O'Clocfc Report) by 
Walter Cronkite and in the Washington Star by Jack Germond. 

During those same 1976 general elections, the following additional 
situations suggested similar evidence of election tampering on a large 
scale: 

* Rep Richard Torny was convicted of vote fraud in the Louisiana 
Democratic primary following a federal grand Jury investigation. Torny 
was removed from the congressional seat that he won in the subsequent 

November general election. 

" Ron Paul, a former U.S. congressman, contested the general elec- 
tions in Austin, Texas, in which he was narrowly defeated by Democratic 
Party candidate Robert Gamage. Paul proved sizable fraud before the 
courts: however, the judge ruled that sufficient magnitude of fraud to 
turn the elections had not been shown and denied Paul's motion to he 
placed in Congress. 

* Two witnesses to massive fraud by Congressman William Clay (D- 
Mo.) in the November elections in St. Louis subsequently died under 
violent and mysterious circumstances. Clay is linked to the Jacobs family 
Interests (see below in text). 

8. "Critic Changes Tune." Courier Express (Buffalo, N.Y.), January 27 
1977. ' 

9. According to a July 1978 edition of the Toronto Ghbe-Mail, Mark 
Phillips stayed at the residence of Koffler when he went to Canada. 

10. Courier Express, December 28. 1970. 

11. According to the June 15, 1972, Buffalo Evening News, Max Jacobs 
was a heavy contributor to Scoop Jackson. 

12. The information presented here on the HongSbang takeover attempt 
is on the public record and was reported in the Courier Express. 

13. Courier Express, February 24, 197G. 

14. The top Israeli purveyor of weapons to the Central American dictator- 
ships is one Shaul Kiaenberg, who operates behind a myriad of trading 
company fronts, of which the best known is "United Development, Inc." 
with headquarters in Panama. Eisenberg is the world's largest supplier 
of assassination weapons, as well as the "godfather" of the Israel Air- 
craft Company, the manufacturer of Israel's Kfir fighter plane. 
According lu the Washington Post of September II. 1978. he is also one of 
the most senior opdratives of the Israeli secret intelligence, the Mossad. 
With specializations in the Far East and Latin America, Eisenberg runs 



the Zurich Mossad station, under the day-to-day control of the Zflrich 
branch of Bank Leuoii and hte personal direction of a Swiss-based 
member of the Oppenhetrner family. Apart from the arming of such 
entities as the Somoza dictatorship of Nicaragua, the capabilities of the 
Eisenberg operation include Israel's main illicit connections to the Far 
East, where Eisenberg spent World War II, and a significant portion of 
wholesale drug transshipments across the Mediterranean route. Eisen- 
berg build (and paid for in cash) a building dubbed "Adia House" in Tel 
Aviv, housing most of the Asian countries' trade representatives in 
Israel. He also has a billion-dollar credit line in Hong Kong at the 
Standard Chartered Bank. 

15. Zoakus. Assassination Plot, pp. 9-11. The information was originally 
developed in a July 15, 1978 telephone interview with Paul Bow den, the 
head of the Detroit Anti-Nazi Coalition and himself a retired UAW 
worker. 

16. Jeffrey Steinberg, "Jacobs Family and Related Organized Crime 
Activities in the St. Louis, Mo. Area," an unpublished manuscript (New 
York), October 1978. 



6. THE PHILADELPHIA STORY 

1. Phone interview with official of Paco Pharmaceuticals. For Ernst 
Japhet control over Paco, see Charterhouse J uphet Annual Report. 1977. 

2. Proceedings and Yearbook. Philadelphia Yearly Meeting of the 
Religious Society of Friends. 1978. cites "friendly presence group" 
activities to conduct nonviolent demonstrations in support of human 
rights for MOVE (p. 11*12) and operations request of $2000 per month for 
work in conjunction with vigil at MOVE headquarters (p. 16). According 
to the Philadelphia inquirer, a diary was found at MOVE headquarters 
after the September 1978 shootout citing support, including financial 
support, from the American Friends Service Committee. 

3. William Penn Foundation Annual Report for 1977 cites $120,000 to 
Neighborhood Resources West (p. 39). The wife of the director for the 
Movement for a New Society is on the board of directors of the NRW. 
NRW funds Movement houses in West Philadelphia for "community 
development," according to interviews with members of both the NRS 
and the Movement for a New Society. The Annual Report of the 
Philadelphia Foundation for the year ending April 1977 and also for 1976 
cites over 520.000 transferred to a "clearinghouse" which in turn funds 
community projects (p. 14); see also Proceedings and Yearbook, 
Philadelphia Yearly Meeting, pp. 183-84. 



i 



:*,, 



?.■ 



I 



'V- 






■f 



1- 



PART IV 

Creating the Market: 

The British Origins 
of the Counterculture 



A. 



1 



V 






TAe aets or gestures that accompany the incantations con- 
stitute the rite (of Ms). In these dances, the beating of 
drums and the rhythm of music and repetitive movements 
were helped by hallucinatory substances like hashish or 
mescal; these were consumed as adjuvants to create the 
trance and the hallucinations that were taken to be the visi- 
tation of the god. The drugs were sacred, and their know- 
ledge was limited to the initiated; their preparation and 
their gathering were surrounded with . . . secrecy. . . . In 
some cases, like the harvesting of the mandrake, they 
remained secret until the Middle Ages. 

Possibly because they gave the illusion of satisfied de- 
sires, and allowed the innermost feelings to escape, these 
rites acquired during their execution a frenzied character 
that is conspicuous in certain spells; "Retreat? Re is pierc- 
ing thy head, slashing thy face, dividing they head, crush- 
ing it in his hands; thy bones are shattered, thy limbs are 

cut to pieces." 

The House of Life: Magic and 

Medical Science in Ancient Egypt, 

by Paul Ghalioungui 0) 



363 



364 



DOPE, INC. 



BRITISH ORIGINS OF COUNTERCULTURE 



365 



If this description of pagan cult ceremonies dating back to the 
Egyptian Isis priesthood of the third millenium B.C. reads like a 
journalistic account of a "hippy be-in" circa 1969 A.D., it should. 
The counterculture that was foisted on the 1960s adolescent 
population is not merely analogous to the ancient Cult of Isis. It is 
a literal resurrection of the Isis cult — down to the popularisation 
of the Isis cross as the counterculture's most frequently used 
symbol. 

As we shall show here, the drug-rock counterculture was the 
result of Britain's 30-year Opium War against the United States, 
which included not only chemical and psychological warfare but 
the hideous military project called the Vietnam War. 

The British fostered the creation of the bestial rock and drug 
cult for the same reason that their colonial policy enforced 
backwardness throughout the empire and for the same reason 
that the pharaohs of ancient Egypt and the Ptolemaic priests of 
the first century A.D. Egypt fostered the practice. As long as a 
population is organized around superstition, magic, hal- 
lucinogenic drugs, and animal-like pursuit of immediate sensory 
gratification ("if it/eefsgood, do it") T it will remain incapable of 
acting on behalf of its own interests. It was for this reason that 
the oligarchies of ancient Egypt organized themselves into 
priesthoods and created dozens of apparently contending pagan 
cults, all characterized by the same bestialist outlook. 

True religion, as opposed to the worship of magically endowed 
cult-gods, addresses man's capacity for reason, his "Godliness." 
Unlike the lower beasts, the human species is uniquely capable of 
creative thought — the ability to break out of the bounds of sense- 
certainty, develop new scientific knowledge, and socially apply 
that knowledge through technological innovations that uplift the 
material and cultural condition of man. Historically such true 
religion has been associated with the development of urban 
centers where science, culture, and commerce could flourish. Its 
sworn enemy has been the oligarchy and its priesthoods and cults 
which on countless occasions have mobilized to sack the cities, 
murder the city-builders, and bring on the "dark ages" of plague 
and ignorance. 



H 



I 



- 
• 



■ 



The gentlemen at the Royal Institute of International Affairs 
responsible for charting Britain's global drug trafficking 
recognized that no mass-scale drug epidemic could be produced 
in the United States until the American people's fundamental 
commitment to scientific and technological progress had first 
been significantly undermined. The drug-rock counterculture 
was no mere "sociological phenomenon." 

In his City of God, the great humanist St. Augustine described 
the degeneration into cultism that brought on the destruction of 
Rome, in terms that have direct bearing on the post-1963 degen- 
eration of the United States : 

The stage plays, those exhibitions of depravity and un- 
bounded license, were not introduced in Rome by men's 
vices, but by the command of your gods. Par more 
justifiably might you have paid divine honors to your Scipio 
than worship gods such as those, for they were not more 
virtuous than their high priest. 

Are your minds bereft of reason? You are not merely 
mistaken; this is madness. Here are people in the east be- 
wailing Rome's humiliation, and great states in remote 
regions of the earth holding public mourning and lamenta- 
tion — and you Romans are searching for theaters, pouring 
into them, filling them, behaving more irresponsibly than 
ever before. It is this spiritual disease, degeneration, 
decline into immorality and indecency that Scipio feared 
when he opposed the erection of theaters. He saw how 
easily ease and plenty would soften and ruin you. He did not 
wish you to be free from fear. 

He did not think that the republic could be happy while 
walls were standing, yet morals were collapsing. But. you 
were more attached to the seductions of foul spirits than to 
the wisdom of men with foresight. That is why you take no 
blame for the evil you do, but blame Christianity for the 
evil you suffer. Depraved by prosperity, and unchastened 
by adversity, you desire, in your security, not the peace of 
the State, but liberty for license. (2) 



366 



DOPE, INC. 



BRITISH ORIGINS OF COUNTERCULTURE 



367 



The high priesthood 



The "case officer'* for Britain's Opium War was Aldous 
Huxley, the grandson of Thomas H. Huxley, a founder of the 
Rhodes Round Table group and a lifelong collaborator of Arnold 
Toynbee, Toynbee himself sat on the RUA council for nearly 50 
years, headed the Research Division of British intelligence 
throughout World War II, and served as wartime briefing officer 
to Prime Minister Winston Churchill. 

Toynbee's "theory" of history, expounded in his 20-volume 
history of Western civilization, was that its determining feature 
has always been the rise and decline of grand imperial dynasties. 
At the very point that these dynasties — the "thousand year 
Reich" of the Egyptian pharaohs, the Roman Empire, and the 
British Empire — succeed in imposing their rule over the entire 
face of the earth, they tend to decline. Toynbee argued that this 
decline could be abated if the ruling oligarchy (like that of the 
British Round Table) would devote itself to the recruitment and 
training of an ever-expanding priesthood devoted to the 
principles of imperial rule, (3) 

Trained at Toynbee's Oxford, Aldous Huxley was one of the 
initiates in the "Children of the Sun," a dionysian cult comprised 
of the children of Britain's Round Table elite. (4) Among 

the other initiates were T.S: Eliot, W. H. Auden, Sir Oswald 
Moseley, andD. H. Lawrence, Huxley's homosexual lover. It was 
Huxley, furthermore, who would launch the legal battle in the 
1950s to have Lawrence's pornographic novel Lady Chatterley's 
Lover allowed into the United States on the ground that it was a 
misunderstood "work of art." (S> 

Aldous Huxley, along with his brother Julian, was tutored at 
Oxford by H. G. Wells, the head of British foreign intelligence 
during World War I. Wells's writings {Time Machine, etc.)* along 
with those of his proteges Aldous Huxley (Brave New World) and 
George Orwell {1984, Animal Farm), were written as "mass 
appeal" organizing documents on behalf of Britain's "en- 
lightened" world order. Only in the United States are these 
"science fiction classics" taught in grade school as attacks 






'I 

■ft 

'I 



£ 



*, 

i 

I 






against fascism. (A contemporary British intelligence operative- 
tumed-author, Anthony Burgess, wrote Clockwork Orange in the 
Wells-Orwell- Huxley tradition as a pornographic celebration of 

the drug-rock counterculture.) 

Under Wells's tutelage Huxley was first introduced to Aleister 
Crowley (see Part II, Section 9). Crowley was a product of the 
cultist circle that developed in Britain from the lBBOs under the 
guiding influence of Edward Bulwer-Lytton — who. it will be 
recalled, was the colonial minister under Lord Palmerston 
during the Second Opium War. In 1886. Crowley, William Butler 
Yeats, and several other Bulwer-Lytton proteges formed the Isis- 
Urania Temple of Hermetic Students of the Golden Dawn. This 
Isis Cult was organized around the 1877 manuscript Isis Unveiled 
by Madame Helena Blavatsky, in which the Russian occultist 
called for the British aristocracy to organize itself into an Isis 

Priesthood, (6) 

Crowley in turn initiated Aldous Huxley into the Isis-Golden 
Dawn Temple and introduced him to psychedelic drugs in 

1929. (7) 

In 1937, Huxley moved to the United States, where he remained 
throughout the period of World War II. Through a Los Angeles 
contact, Jacob Zcitlin, Huxley and pederast Christopher Isher- 
wood were employed as script writers for MGM, Warner 

Brothers, and Wall Disney studios. As we have seen, Hollywood 
was already dominated by organized crime elements bankrolled 
and controlled through London. Joseph Kennedy was the front 
man for a British consortium that created RKO studios, and 
"Bugs" Siege), the West Coast boss of the Lansky syndicate, was 
heavily involved in Warner Brothers and MGM. 

Huxley was instrumental in founding a nest of Isis cults in 
southern California and in a San Francisco suburb called Ojai — 
which consisted exclusively of several hundred deranged wor- 
shippers of Isis and other cult gods. (S) Isherwood, during the 

California period, translated and propagated a number of ancient 

2en Buddhist documents, inspiring Zen-mystical cults along the 

way. (9) 

In effect, Huxley and Isherwood (joined soon afterwards by 
Thomas Mann and his daughter Elisabeth Mann Borghese) laid 



366 



DOPE, INC. 



BRITISH ORIGINS OF COUNTERCULTURE 



369 



the foundation during the late 1930s and the 1940s for the later 
LSD culture by recruiting a core of "initiates" into the Isis cults 
that Huxley's mentors Bulwer-Lytton, Blavatsky, and Crowley, 
had constituted while stationed in India. 



LSD: ' 'visitation from the gods" 

The next phase in the war involved the introduction of LSD for 
which Aldous Huxley was the designated Crown agent. 

Lycergic acid diethylamide, or LSD, was developed in 1943 by 
Albert Hoffman, a chemist at Sandoz A.G. — a Swiss phar- 
maceutical house owned by S. O. Warburg. While precise 
documentation is unavailable as to the auspices under which the 
LSD research was commissioned, it can be safely assumed that 
British intelligence and its subsidiary U.S. Office of Strategic 
Services were directly involved. Allen Dulles, the director of the 
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency in 1952 when that agency began 
its covert LSD experiment, MK-ULTRA, was the OSS station 
chief in Berne, Switzerland throughout the early Sandoz 
research. One of his OSS assistants was James Warburg, of the 
same Warburg family, who was instrumental in the 1963 founding 
of the Institute for Policy Studies, and worked with both Huxley 
and Robert Hutchins. (10) 

In 1952, Aldous Huxley returned to the United States from 
Britain, accompanied by Dr. Humphrey Osmond, the Huxleys' 
private physician. Osmond had been part of a discussion group 
Huxley had organized at the National Hospital, Queens Square. 
London. Along with another seminar participant, J. R. Smythies. 
Osmond wrote Schizophrenia: A New Approach, in which he 
asserted that mescaline — a derivative of peyote mushrooms 
used in ancient Egyptian and Indian pagan rites — produced a 
psychotic state identical in all clinical respects to schizophrenia. 
On this basis, Osmond and Smythies advocated experimentation 
with hallucinogenic drugs as a means of developing a "cure* 1 for 
mental disorders. 

Osmond was brought in by Allen Dulles to play a prominent 
role in MK-ULTRA. At the same time, Osmond, Huxley, and the 



University of Chicago's Robert Hutchins held a series of secret 
planning sessions in 1952-53 for a second, private LSD-mescaline 
project under the Ford Foundation funding. OS) Hutchins, it will 
be recalled, was the program director of the Ford Foundation 
during this period. His LSD proposal incited such rage in Henry 
Ford II that Hutchins was fired from the foundation the following 

year. 

It was also in 1953 that Osmond gave Huxley a supply of 
mescaline for his personal consumption. The next year, Huxley 
wrote The Doors of Perception, the first public manifesto of the 
psychedelic drug cult, which claimed that hallucinogenic drugs 
"expand consciousness." 

Although, through the sane intervention of Henry Ford, the 
Ford Foundation rejected the Hutchins-Huxley proposal for 
private foundation sponsorship of LSD. it appears that the 
project was not dropped- Beginning in 3962, the RAND Cor- 
poration of Santa Monica California began a four-year experi- 
ment in LSD. peyote, and marijuana. The RAND Corporation 
was established simultaneously with the reorganization of the 
Ford Foundation during 1949-50. RAND was an outgrowth of the 
wartime Strategic Bombing Survey, a "cost analysis" study of 
the psychological effects of random bombings of German 
population centers. It is well known that RAND has been respon- 
sible for conduiting such patently insane policies as "limited ther- 
monuclear war" and the "insanity doctrine" into the U.S. 
Pentagon — most notably through RAND*s James Schlesingcr. 

According to the 1962 RAND Abstract W. H. McCJlothUn 
conducted a preparatory study on "The Longlasting Effects of 
LSD on Certain Attitudes in Normals: An Experimental 
Proposal." The following year, McGlothlin conducted a year-long 
experiment on 30 human guinea pigs, called "Short-Term Effects 
of LSD on Anxiety, Attitudes and Performance/' The study 
incredibly concluded that LSD improved emotional attitudes and 
resolved anxiety problems. (12) 

HUXLEY AT WORK 
Huxley expanded his own LSD-mescatine project in California 
by recruiting several individuals who had been initially drawn 



370 



DOPE, INC. 



BRITISH ORIGINS OF COUNTERCULTURE 



371 



into the cult circles he helped establish during his 1937-45 stay. 
The two most prominent individuals were Alan Watts and Dr. 
Gregory Bateson (the former husband of Dame Margaret Mead). 

Mead). 

Watts became a self-styled "guru" of a nationwide Zen 
Buddhist cult built around a series of his well-publicized books. 
Bate son. an anthropologist with the OSS, became the director of a 
hallucinogenic drug experimental clinic at the Palo Alto 
Veterans Administration Hospital. Under Bateson's auspices, the 
initiating "cadre" of the LSD cult — the hippies — were 
programmed. (13) 

Watts at the same time founded the Pacifica Foundation, which 
sponsored two radio stations — WKBW in San Francisco and 
WBAI-FM in New York City. The Pacifica stations were among 
the first to push the "Liverpool Sound" — the British-imported 
hard rock twanging of the Rolling Stones, the Beatles, and the 
Animals. They would later pioneer "acid rock" and eventually 
the avowedly fascist-psychotic "punk rock." 

During the fall of 1960, Huxley was appointed Visiting 
Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 
Boston. Around his stay in that city, Huxley created a circle at 
Harvard parallel to his West Coast LSD team. The Harvard 
group included Huxley, Osmond, and Watts (brought in from 
California) , Timothy Leary, and Richard Alpert. 

The ostensible topic of the Harvard seminar was "Religion and 
its Significance in the Modern Age," The seminar was actually a 
planning session for the "acid rock" counterculture. Huxley 
established contact during this Harvard period with the president 
of Sandoz. which at the time was working on a CIA contract to 
produce large quantities of LSD and psilocybin (another synthet- 
ic hallucinogenic drug) for MK-ULTRA, the CIA's official 
chemical warfare experiment. According to recently released 
CIA documents, Allen Dulles, purchased over 100 million doses of 
LSD — almost all of which flooded the streets of the U.S. during 
the late 1 960s. During the same period Leary began privately pur- 
chasing large Quantities of LSD from Sandoz as well. 04) 

From the discussions of the Harvard seminar, Leary put 



-.1 
* 



a" 

■I 






f- 

\ 
I. 

< 

f 

r 
? 



I; 

■ 

i-: 



. s 



together the book The Psychedelic Experience, based on the 
ancient cultist Tibetan Book of the Dead. It was this book that 
popularized Osmond's previously coined term, "psychedelic 
mind expanding." 

THE ROOTS OF THE FLOWER PEOPLE 
Back in California, Gregory Bateson had maintained the 
Huxley operation out of the Palo Alto VA hospital. Through LSD 
experimentation on patients already hospitalized for 
psychological problems, Bateson established a core of 
"initiates" into the "psychedelic" Isis Cult. 

Foremost among his Palo Aito recruits was Ken Kesey. In 
1959, Bateson administered the first dose of LSD to Kesey. By 1962, 
Kesey had completed a novel. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's 
Nest, which popularized the notion that society is a prison and the 
only truly "free" people are the insane. (15) 

Kesey subsequently organized a circle of LSD initiates called 
"The Merry Pranksters." They toured the country disseminating 
LSD (often without forewarning the receiving parties), building 
up local distribution connections, and establishing the pretext for 
a high volume of publicity on behalf of the still miniscule 
"counterculture." 

By 1967, the Kesey cult had disseminated such quantities of 
LSD that a sizable drug population had emerged, centered 
in the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco. Here Huxley 
collaborator Bateson set up a * 'free clinic." 
Among the founders of the "free clinic" were: 
Dr. David Smith — now a "medical advisor" for the National 
Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), an 
entity we shall discuss in Part V; 

Dr. Ernest Demberg — an active-duty military officer, prob- 
ably on assignment through MK-ULTRA; 

Roger Smith — a street gang organizer trained by Saul 
Alinsky. During the Free Clinic period, Roger Smith was the 
parole officer (and probable controller) of the cultist mass 

murderer Charles Manson; 

Dr. Peter Bourne — formerly President Carter's special 



372 



DOPE. INC. 



BfllTISH ORIGINS OF COUNTERCULTURE 



373 



assistant on drug abuse. Bourne did his psychiatric residency at 
the clinic. He had previously conducted a profiling study of GI 
heroin addicts in Vietnam 

The Free Clinic paralleled a project at the Tavistock Institute, 
the psychological warfare agency for British Secret Intelligence 
Service- Tavistock, founded as a clinic in London in the 1920s, had 
become the Psychiatric Division of the British Army during 
World War II under its director. Dr. John Rawlings Rees. (16) 

During the 1960s, the Tavistock Clinic fostered the notion that 
no criteria for sanity exist and that psychedelic "mind- 
expanding" drugs are valuable tools of psychoanalysis; In 1967, 
Tavistock sponsored a Conference on the Dialectics of 
Liberation, chaired by Tavistock psychoanalyst Dr. R. D. Laing. 
himself a popularized author and advocate of drug use. That 
conference drew a number of people who would soon play a 
prominent role in fostering terrorism: Angela Davis and Stokely 
Carmichael were two prominent American delegates. (17) 

Thus, by 1063, Huxley had recruited his core of "initiates." As 
the general reader is well aware, all of them — Leary, Osmond. 
Watts, Kesey, Alpert — were highly publicized promoters of the 
early LSD counterculture. By 1967, with the cult of "Flower 
People" in Haight-Ashbury and the emergence of the antiwar 
movement, the United States was ready for the inundation of 
LSD, hashish, and marijuana that hit American college 
campuses in the late 1960s. 



"The beating of drums . 



if 



In 1963, the Beatles arrived in the United States, and with their 
decisive airing on the Ed Sullivan Show, the "British sound" took 
off in the USA. For their achievement, the four rocksters were 
awarded the Order of the British Empire by Her Majesty the 
Queen. The Beatles and the Animals, Rolling Stones, and homi- 
cidal punk rock maniacs who followed were, of course, no more a 
spontaneous outpouring of alienated youth than was the acid 
culture they accompanied. 



■ i- 

1 



•i 



* 



The social theory of rock was elaborated by British agent and 
musicologist Theodor Adorno, who came to the United States in 
1939 to head the Princeton University Radio Research Project 
(18) Adorno writes: 

In an Imaginary but psychologically emotion-laden 
domain, the listener who remembers a hit song will turn 
into the song's ideal subject, into the person for whom the 
song ideally speaks. At the same time, as one of many who 
identify with that fictitious subject, that musical I, he will 
feel his isolation ease as he himself feels integrated into the 
community of "fans." In whistling such a song he bows to a 
ritual of socialization, although beyond this unarticulated 
subjective stirring of the moment his isolation continues 
unchanged .... 

The comparison with addiction is inescapable. Addicted 
conduct generally has a social component: It is one 
possible reaction to the atomizatlon which, as sociologists 
have noticed, parallels the compression of the social 
network. Addiction to music on the part of a number of 
entertainment listeners would be a similar phenomenon 
(emphasis added). (19) 

The Hit Parade is organized precisely on the same principles 
used by Egypt's Isis priesthood and for the same purpose; the 
recruitment of youth to the dionysiac counterculture. 

In a report prepared for the University of Michigan's Institute 
of Social Research, Paul Hirsch described the product of 
Adomo's Radio Research Project. (20) According to Hirsch, the 
establishment of postwar radio's Hit Parade * 'transformed the 
mas9 medium into an agency of sub-cultural programming/ 1 
Radio networks were converted into round-the-clock recycling 
machines that repeated the top 40 "hits." Hirsch documents how 
ail popular culture — movies, music, books, and fashion — is now 
run on the same program of preselection. Today's mass culture 
operates like the opium trade: the supply determines the 
demand. 



374 



DOPE, INC. 



BRITISH ORIGINS OF COUNTERCULTURE 



375 



The Vietnam war and 
the antiwar trap 

But without the Vietnam War and the British Secret Intel- 
ligence Services' "antiwar" movement, the Isis Cult would have 
been contained to a fringe phenomenon — no bigger than the 
beatnik cult of the 19508 that was an outgrowth of the early Huxley 
ventures in California. The Vietnam war created the climate of 
moral despair that opened the educated elite of America's youth 
— the first 20th-century generation raised in a climate free from 
depression and war — to drugs. 

The reader has already been shown that the Kennedy Ad- 
ministration installed in the White House by the 1960 elections 
was sponsored by the British Round Table (see Part III) . Under 
Kennedy, American involvement in Vietnam — which had been 
vetoed by the Eisenhower Administration — was initiated on a 
limited scale. Under Lyndon Johnson, American military 
presence in Vietnam be#an in earnest. Johnson's principal 
Vietnam advisor was not even American. He was a British 
officer. Sir Robert Thompson, whose entire career had been 
spent conducting counterinsurgency warfare in Southeast Asia. 
Playing on the President's "yahoo" antlcommunist profile, 
Thompson convinced President Johnson that communist in- 
surgency had to be stopped at ail costs and that a strong U.S. 
military presence in South Vietnam was necessary for that con- 
tainment. Johnson, a military and foreign policy incompetent 
whose other chief Vietnam advisor, National Security Council 
Director Walt Rostow, held the Cross of the Order of the British 
Empire, was dragged by the nose into Vietnam by the British. 

The British, to put it simply, had two reasons for manipulating 
the United States into Vietnam. The first was to foster a "limited 
war" confrontation in Southeast Asia between the United States 
and the Soviet Union (through its North Vietnamese 
"surrogate") that would both refuel the Cold War and effectively 
undercut the influence of both powers in the region. The second 
and equally significant reason was to demoralize the American 
people to such a degree that the sense of national pride and 



confidence in the future progress of the republic would be forever 

shattered. 

Just as Aldous Huxley began the counterculture subversion of 
the United States 30 years before its consequences became 
evident to the public. Lord Bertrand Russell began laying the 
foundations for the antiwar movement of the 1960s before the 
1930s expired. Lord Russell and Aldous Huxley cofounded the 
Peace Pledge Union in 1937 — just before both went to the United 
States for the duration of World War IT. (21) 

Russell's antiwar zeal, it should be noted, was a patent fraud. 
During World War II, Lord Russell opposed British and 
American warfare against the Nazis because he was a peripheral 
member of the pro-Nazi Cliveden Set. In 1947, when the United 
States was in possession of the atomic bomb and Russia was 
not, Russell loudly advocated that the United States pre- 
emptively commence World War III — against the Soviet Union. 
His 1950s "Ban the Bomb" aboutface was fundamentally an 
antitechnohgy movement against the peace-through-devel- 
opment potentials represented by President Eisenhower's 
"Atoms for Peace" initiative to the Soviets; Eisenhower's 1954 
proposal to the United Nations was predicated on the develop- 
ment of thermonuclear fusion power and concomitant city-build- 
ing projects throughout the underdeveloped sector. 

From the mid-1950s on, Russell's principal assignment was to 
build an international antiwar and anti-American movement. 
Coincident with the escalation of U.S. involvement in Vietnam 
under British manipulation. Russell upgraded the old Peace 
Pledge Union (which had been used in West Germany throughout 
the postwar period to promote an anticapitalist "new left" wing 
of the Social Democratic Party, recruiting several future 
members of the Baader-Meinhof terrorist gang in the process) 
into the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation. 

In the United States, New York's Our Crowd banks provided 
several hundred thousand dollars to establish the Institute for 
Policy Studies (IPS) , as effectively the U.S. branch of the Russell 
Peace Foundation. Among the founding trustees of the IPS was 
James Warburg, directly representing the family's Interests. 
IPS drew its most active operatives from a variety of British- 






376 



DOPE, INC. 



BRITISH ORIGINS OF COUNTERCULTURE 



377 



dominated institutions. IPS founding director Marcus Raskin 
was a member of the Kennedy Administration's National Secur- 
ity Council and also a fellow of the National Training Labs, a U.S. 
subsidiary of the Tavistock Institute founded by Dr. Kurt Lewin. 

IPS in turn financed and ran the Students for a Democratic 
Society (SDS) — the student antiwar movement — up through 
and beyond its splintering into a number of terrorist and Maoist 
gangs in the late 1960s. (22) If one were to take the time to trace 
the pedigrees of all of the leaders of the antiwar movement in the 
United States, an almost unbroken pattern of either IPS or direct 
Russell Foundation control would emerge. This is not to say that 
the majority of antiwar protesters were paid, certified British 
agents. On the contrary, the overwhelming majority of antiwar 
protesters went into SDS on the basis of outrage at the 
developments in Vietnam and subsequently got trapped. Once 
caught in the environment defined by Russell and the Tavistock 
Institute's wartime psychological warfare experts, their sense of 
values and their creative potential were snatched up in a cloud of 
hashish smoke. 



The LSD connection 

Who provided the drugs that swamped the antiwar movement 
and the college campuses of the United States m the late 1960s? 
The organized crime infrastructure — which had set up the 
Peking Connection for the opium trade in 1928 — provided the 
same services in the 1960s and 1970s it had provided during Pro- 
hibition. This was also the same network Huxley had established 
contact with in Hollywood during the 1930s. 

The LSD Connection begins with one William "Billy" Mellon 
Hitchcock, Hitchcock was a graduate of the University of Vienna 
and a scion of the millionaire Mellon banking family of 
Pittsburgh. (Andrew Melton of the same family had been 
the Treasury Secretary throughout Prohibition.) In 1963, when 
Timothy Leary was thrown out of Harvard, Hitchcock rented a 
55-room mansion in Millbrook, New York where the entire Leary- 
Huxley circle of initiates was housed until its later move back to 
California. (23) 



Hitchcock was also a broker for the Lansky syndicate and for 
the Fiduciary Trust Co., Nassau, Grand Bahamas — a wholly 
owned subsidiary t>f Investors Overseas Services. He was 
formally employed by Delaficld and Delafield Investments 
where he worked on buying and selling vast quantities of stock in 
the Mary Carter Paint Co. — soon to become Resorts 
International. 

In 1967, Dr. Richard Alpert put Hitchcock in contact with 
Augustus Owsley Stanley III. As Owsley's agent, Hitchcock 
retained the law firm of Rabinowitz, Boudin and Standard (24) to 
conduct a feasibility study of several Caribbean countries to 
determine the best location for the production and distribution of 
LSD and hashish. 

During this period, Hitchcock joined Leary and his circle in 
California. Leary had established an LSD cult called the Brother- 
hood of Eternal Love and several front companies, including 
Mystics Art World, Inc. of Laguna Beach, California. These 
California -based entities ran lucrative trafficking in Mexican 
marijuana and LSD brought in from Switzerland and Britain. 
The British connection had been established directly by 
Hitchcock, who contracted the Charles Bruce chemical firm to 
import large quantities of the chemical components of LSD. With 
financing from both Hitchcock and George Grant Hoag, the heir 
to the J.C. Penney dry goods fortune, the Brotherhood of Eternal 
Love set up LSD and hashish production-marketing operations in 
Costa Rica in 1968. (25) 

Toward the end of 1968, Hitchcock expanded the LSD-hashish 
production operations in the Caribbean with funds provided by 
the Fiduciary Trust Co. <IOS). In conjunction with J. Vontobel 
and Co- of Zurich. Hitchcock founded a corporation called 4-Star 
Anstalt in Liechtenstein. This company, employing "investment 
funds" (i.e., drug receipts) from Fiduciary Trust, bought up 
large tracts of land in the Grand Bahamas as well as large 
quantities of ergotamine tartrate, the basic chemical used in the 
production of LSD. (30 

Hitchcock's personal hand in the LSD connection abruptly 
ended several years later. Hitchcock had been working closely 
with Jobann F. Parravacini of the Parravacini Bank Ltd. in 
Berne, Switzerland. From 1968, they had together funded even 



■: 



■■.- 

1 



378 



DOPE, IMC. 



THE DRUG LOBBY 



379 



further expansion of the Caribbean-California LSD-hashish 
ventures. In the early 1970s, as the result of a Securities and 
Exchange Commission investigation, both Hitchcock and Parra- 
vacini were indicted and convicted of a $40 million stock fraud. 
Parravacim had registered a $40 million sale to Hitchcock for 
which Hitchcock had not put down a penny of cash or collateral. 
This was one of the rare instances in which federal investigators 
succeeded in getting inside the $200 billion drug fund as it was 
making its way around the "offshore" banking system. 

Another channel for laundering dirty drug money — a channel 
yet to be compromised by federal investigative agencies — is 
important to note here. This is the use of tax-exempt foundations 
to finance terrorism and environmentaltsm. One immediately 
relevant case makes the point. 

In 1957, the University of Chicago's Robert M. Hutchins 
established the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions 
(CSDI) in Santa Barbara, California. Knight Commander 
Hutchins drew in Aldous Huxley, Elisabeth Mann Borghese, and 
some Rhodes Scholars who had originally been brought into the 
University of Chicago during the 1930s and 1940s. 

The CSDI was originally funded < 1957-61) through a several- 
million-dollar fund that Hutchins managed to set up before his 
untimely departure from the Ford Foundation. From 1961 on, the 
Center was principally financed by organized crime. The two 
funding conduits were the Fund of Funds, a tax-exempt front for 
Berhie Cornfeld's 10S, and the Parvin Foundation, a parallel 
front for the Parvin-Dohrman Co. of Nevada. IOS and Parvin- 
Dohrman held controlling interests in the Desert Inn, the Aladdin, 
and the Dunes — all Las Vegas casinos associated with the 
Lansky syndicate. IOS, as already documented, was a conduiting 
vehicle for LSD, hashish, and marijuana distribution throughout 
the 1960s. (27) In 1967 alone. IOS channeled between $3-4 million 
to the center. Wherever there is dope, there is Dope, Inc. 



Notes 



- 



IV. CREATING THE MARKET: THE BRITISH ORIGINS OF THE 
COUNTERCULTURE 

1. Prful Ghalioungui. The House of Life: Magic and Medical Science in 
Ancient Egypt (New York: Schram Enterprises Ltd., 1974) . 

2. Saint Augustine. The City of God (New York: Oxford University Press, 
1963). 

3. Arnold Toynhee, A Study of History <New York: Oxford University 

Press, 1935). 

4. Martin Green, Children of the Sun; A Narrative of Decadence in 

England After I91S (New York: Basic Books, Inc., 1976). 

5. See Ronald William Clark, The Huxltys (New York: McGraw-Hill, 

196 R). 

6. Helena P. Blavatsky. /sis Unveiled. A Master Key to the Mysteries of 
Ancient and Modern Science and Theology (Los Angeles: Theosophy Co.. 

1931), 

7. Francis King. Sexuality. Magic and Perversion (New York: Citadel, 

1974), p. 118. 

8. Sybille Bedford, Aldous Huxley: A Biography (New York: Alfred A. 

Knopf and Harper & Row, 1974) . 

9. Ibid, 

10. Institute for Policy Studies, "The First Ten Years. 1963-1973," 

Washington, D.C., 1974. 

11. Humphrey Osmond, Understanding Understanding (New York: 

HarperS Row, 1974). 

12. RAND Catalogue of Documents. 

13. Gregory Bateson, Steps to the Ecology of the Mind (New York: 

Chandler. 1972). 

14. Ralph Metzner, The Ecstatic Adventure (New York: Macmillan, 
1968). 

15. See Ronald William Clark, The Huxleys (New York: McGraw-Hill, 

1968). 

16. Michael Minnicino. "Low Intensity Operations: The Reesian Theory 

of War," The Campaigner (April, 1974). 

17. R.D. Laing et al.. The Dialectics of Liberation (London: Tavistock 

Press, 1967) . 

IS. Theodor Adornn was a leading professor at the Frankfurt School of 

Social Research in Germany, founded by (he British Fabian Society. A 

collaborator of twelve-tone formalist and British intelligence operative. 




380 



DOPE, INC. 



Arnold Schonberg, Adorno was brough into the United States in 1939 to 
head up the Princeton Radio Research Project. The explicit aim of this 
project, as stated in Adorno's Introduction to the Sociology of Music, was 
to program a mass "musical" culture that would steadily degrade its 
consumers. Punk rock is. in the most direct sense, the ultimate result of 
Adorno's work. 

19. Theodor Adorno, Introduction to the Sociology of Music (New York: 
Seabury Press, 1976). 

20. Paul Hlrsch, "The Structure of the Popular Music Industry: The 
Filtering Process by Which Records are Preselected for Public Consump- 
tion," Institute for Social Research's Survey Research Center Mono- 
graph, 1969. 

21. Ronald W. Clark. The Life of Bcrtrand Russell (New Yorkr Alfred A. 
Knopf, 1976). p. 457. 

22. Illinois Crime Commission Report, 1969. The Institute for Policy 
Studies <IPS) was established in 1983 by Marcus Raskin, a former 
National Security Advisor under NSC Director McGcorge Bundy, and 
Richard Baraet, a former State Department Advisor on Arms Control 
and Disarmament. Among the Board of Trustees of IPS were Thurmond 
Arnold, James Warburg. Philip Stern, and Hans Morgenthau, with seed 
money from the Ford Foundation (Later to be headed by McGeorge 
Bundy). IPS has functioned as the "New Left" think tank and control 
center for local community control, community mental health centers 
and direct terrorist organizations. In its report "The First Ten Years," 
the Institute lists among its lecturers and fellows members of the 
Weathermen group, known associates of the Japanese Red Army, the 
Puerto Rican terrorist Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN), 
and the Black Liberation Army. See also Carter and the Party of Inter- 
national Terrorism. Special Report by the U.S. Labor Party, August. 197$. 

23. Mary Jo Warth, "The Story of Acid Profiteers," Village Voice, 
August 22, 1974. 

24. Ibid. 

25. Ibid. 

26. Ibid. 

27. Hutchinson, Vesco. 



PARTV 

The Drug Lobby: 

The Criminals Come 

Out in the Open 



:. 



"3 










In California, laws are now before the state legislature that 
would decriminalize all drug use on the grounds that this would 
free law enforcement and judicial agencies to deal with "more 
serious crime." The sponsor of that bill is State Representative 
Willie Brown* a paid lobbyist for Resorts International 

That's the tip-off to the real nature of the Drug Lobby. Britain's 
secret army of organized crime is now out in the open demanding 
the expansion of its dope market. 

Since 1973, when Watergate finished off Nixon's attempt to shut 
down the drug trade, the Drug Lobby has succeeded in decrim- 
inalizing marijuana in nine states. In every case, the result has 
been an immediate outbreak of drug abuse of epidemic 
proportions. According to Dr. Peter Bensinger, Director of the 
Drug Enforcement Administration, the decriminalization of 
marijuana in the state of Maine additionally opened the coastal 
area as a major smuggling center for marijuana, cocaine, and 

heroin. 

By the open admission of the Drug Lobbyists, legalized 
proliferation of marijuana is just the footin-the-door for eventual 



353 



384 



DOPE, INC. 



legal cocaine and heroin proliferation. Dr. Peter Bourne, who 
until 197S was President Carter's special advisor on drug abuse. 
making him the highest ranking federal drug enforcement 
officer, has appeared on nationwide television to advocate 
national legalization of cocaine. 

A systematic campaign to legalize heroin use has been under- 
way since 1977. A bill was placed before the state legislature of 
Ohio and narrowly defeated in committee in 1977 removing 
heroin from the list of Category I drugs {those drugs outlawed for 
even medical use). New Mexico and Florida — both states identi- 
fied by the DEA as major distribution points for heroin — have 
bills presently pending that would, like the Ohio bill, legalize the 
use of heroin under medical supervision in cases of terminal ill- 
ness and for "experimental purposes.' 1 When a similar bill was 
briefly enacted in New York (in 1919, coincident with Prohibi- 
tion), the widely documented consequences were an immediate 
jump in heroin addiction, far in excess of the number of "official- 
ly registered" patients. 

At present, two Zionist Lobby sponsored bills are before the 
U.S. Congress that would nationally legalize marijuana: the 
Javits-Koch bill and the Kennedy-authored S.1437 which thor- 
oughly overhauls the Federal Criminal Codes on a British "com- 
mon law" basis. 

Kennedy's drug-death Cult 

The U.S. Drug lobby is run out front by the Most Venerable 
Military and Hospitaller Order of St. John of Jerusalem. 

In the 11th century, the Knights-Hospitallers had organized 
hospices as a "death cult" where the sick were administered 
hallucinogenic drugs instead of medical treatment. The hospices 
became known as the dissemination point for drugs and lethal 
poisons, often targeted at the Knights' humanist adversaries. 

In 1967. the Order of St. John resurrected the 1 lth century hos- 
pice movement at St. Christopher's Hospice in London. Here, 
"patients" are administered a "pain-killer" called the Brompton 
Mixture. It consists of heroin, cocaine, alcohol, tranquilizers, and 









I 



■ i ■ 



;* 



::•• 



THE DRUG LOBBY 



385 



chloroform water. It is administered every three hours — until 
the patient dies. (J) 

In 1977, the Order of St. John launched a hospice movement m 
the United States. It advocates the decriminalization of heroin 
and cocaine — on the "humanitarian" grounds that everyone has 
the human right to die as he or she sees fit. 

To propagate the hospice movement here, the Order founded 
the National Committee on the Treatment of Intractable Pain 
(NCTIP). Its honorary chairman is Lady Mary Ward, a British 
specialist in the hospice movement who founded Hospice, Inc. in 
Connecticut as the first operating "death clinic" in the U.S. The 
director of the NCTIP is another British national, Arthur 
Trebach. A professor at the Center for the Administration of Jus- 
tice at the American University in Washington, D.C., Trebach is 
also the Director of the Institute on Drugs, Crime and Justice in 
Britain. For the past five years, Trebach has sponsored hundreds 
of U.S- medical students, professional physicians, and others for 
special indoctrination sessions at the Imperial College of Science 
and Technology, University of London. The theme of the session 
is the "success" of Britain's policy of legalizing heroin in curbing 
the illegal drug problem. (2) 

In the United States, the Hospice, Inc. is financed by the Kaiser 
Foundation, which includes on its board Kingman Brewster, cur- 
rent U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James and also a mem- 
ber of the Order of St. John. The Kaiser Foundation's participa- 
tion in Britain's Opium War dates back to at least 1958, when Dr. 
Timothy Leary conducted his first experiments with LSD at the 
Foundation's Kaiser Experimental Hospital in San Francisco. 

The other institution currently involved in financing the 
hospice project is the Joseph and Rose Kennedy Institute for the 
Study of Human Reproduction and Bioethics at Georgetown Uni- 
veristy. (3) 

In October, 1978, the first annual National Hospice Organizing 
Meeting took place in Washington, D.C. : the two keynote 
speakers were Senator Edward Kennedy, now chairman of the 
Senate Judiciary Committee and a ranking member of the Senate 
Public Health Committee, and Secretary of Health, Education 
and Welfare Joseph Califano. 



386 



£>OPE, INC. 



The Order of St John also maintains significant influence on 
the board of directors of the Ford Foundation, the world's largest 
tax exempt funding conduit for dionysian cults. On the board are 
John Loudon, a Commander in the Knights of St. John, the 
chairman of Royal Dutch Shell, and the present President of the 
World Wildlife Fund (the funding conduit for the terrorist com- 
ponent of the environmentalist movement worldwide) (4) and 
Eugene Black, another Knight and former director of the World 
Bank. The foundation's current policy thrust was charted during 
the 1951-54 period when its associate director and policy 
formulator was Knights Commander Robert M. Hutchms, whom 
we met earlier as a controller of the Capone mob. 

The Ford Foundation gives multimillion dollar annual grants 
directly to the Royal Institute of International Affairs ; it is also 
the principal f under of the Drug Lobby in the U.S. In 1972, the 
Foundation established the Drug Abuse Council with a $1 million 
war chest which has been refilled every year since. (5) 

As its first public act, the Drug Abuse Council issued a widely 
circulated report advocating the decriminalization of marijuana, 
a tenfold increase in methadone (synthetic heroin) clinics, and 
the British system of legalized government-sponsored heroin ad- 
diction. Following the release of that report, the Kaiser Founda- 
tion and the Commonwealth Fund established a matching fund 
that more than doubled the annual revenues available to the 
Drug Abuse Council to push drug legalization. 



Jacob Javits and organized crime 



From this level down, the so-called "liberal" drug decriminal- 
ization lobby is thoroughly interlocked with organized crime, by 
those forces whose monetary interest lies in the expansion of the 
drug market. 

The interlock is keyed around the Zionist Lobby, and more pre- 
cisely around the person of Senator Jacob Javits (R-N.Y.). 

It has been reported by several knowledgeable sources that 
Senator Javits gets his orders several times a week at private 



I 

I 
I 



1 1 



TH6 DRUG LOBBY 



planning briefing sessions at a number of exclusive New York 
City apartments. Among those present are Arthur Ross of 
london's International Institute for Strategic Studies and a sub- 
agent of Rio Tinto Zinc's Mark Turner, Rio Tinto Zinc's Sam 
Harris, Nahum Bernstein of the Jerusalem Foundation, and 
Warburg, Pincus's Henry Simon Bloch. This, in turn, is the same 
circle that maintains ownership of the Bronfman family. 

Startling evidence of this Bronfman-Javits relationship 
surfaced in 1977 when bribery and extortion were employed U> 
pass a marijuana decriminalization bill through the New York 
State Legislature and to subsequently cover up the findings of a 
legislative investigating committee that showed a 300 percent 
jump in adolescent marijuana abuse in the state following 
decrim. As the sponsor since 1968 of legislation to federally 
decriminalize marijuana, Javits (along with cosponsor Edward 
Koch, now Mayor of New York City) was the most outspoken 
organizer for the New York State marijuana legalization bill. 

During the 1977 legislative session, the bill was defeated. In an 
unprecedented move pushed by the senior U.S. Senator, Gover- 
nor Carey personally conducted a pressure campaign on behalf 
of a reintroduced version of the same bill, which passed by one 
vote in June. 1977. The decisive vote was cast by a severely ill 
hospitalized member of the legislature who was helicoptered 
back and forth from his sickbed by state police on persona! 

orders from the Governor. 

These extraordinary measures were perhaps clarified several 
weeks later when Edgar Bronfman made a personal "loan" to 
Carey of $350,090 to pay off the Governor's outstanding 1974 cam- 
paign debts. The loan was in violation of state and federal cam- 
paign financing laws. 

Like the Bronfman family itself, Javits's direct connections to 
organized crime and drug trafficking run deep. According to affi- 
davits on file from the Internal Revenue Service and the Secur- 
ities and Exchange Commission, Javits functions as a listening 
post and conduit of classified government information for the 

Lansky syndicate. 
In one recently publicized incident, Javits provided lansky and 

other crime figures with information on IRS moves to secretly 




3tSS 



□OPE, INC. 



shut down a multibittion dollar tax loophole that enabled mob in- 
vestors in the domestic coal industry to claim 500 percent tax 
writeoffs on their investments. Through Javits's "tip*' Lansky 
and Co. made a huge, final move to take over the independent coal 
operators 24 hours before the new codes went into effect- Another 
crime figure implicated in the coal industry killing was Richard 
L. Herring, a Georgia-based intermediary of Robert Vesco. In ad- 
dition to his involvement in the creation of the offshore Caribbean 
"dirty money" apparatus through Investors Overseas Services, 
Vesco is a known collaborator of Lansky's in running the Carib- 
bean Silver Triangle drug traffic in heroin, cocaine, and mari- 
juana. (6) 

Javits's links to Lansky and Vesco surfaced in yet another con- 
text in October, 1978. After a several ton marijuana bust off the 
coast of Massachusetts, the defendants were represented in court 
by .7 am us Law son, the head of the state chapter of the National 
Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML). 
NORML is the principal public lobby for the decriminalization of 
marijuana and addictive drugs in the U.S. Sitting on its Advisory 
Board is Sen. Jacob Javits. Evidence surfaced in the course of 
the trial that the front money for the captured marijuana ship- 
ment had been provided by Meyer Lansky and Robert Vesco. (?) 

Should there be any lingering doubt in the reader's mind that 
Javits is a witting conspirator in the campaign to poison the coun- 
try through drugs, the following should be considered. From 1940 
to 1942 Javits was the Assistant to the Chief of Chemical Warfare, 
Office of Strategic Services. From 1954 to 1956, as New York State 
Attorney General, Javits administered a clandestine experiment 
on the effects of LSD in conjunction with the Central Intelligence 
Agency. At least one active duty military officer died as the 
result of being given an unsolicited dose of LSD — an incident 
which Javits covered up and which only came to light through re- 
cent Freedom of information Act disclosures. ($) 

Javits is, of course, the unofficial public head of the Zionist 
Lobby in the United States. He is the National Chairman of the 
Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, and a board member of 
the American Jewish Committee, the Zionist Organization of 
America, and the Amer-Israel Cultural Foundation. 



THE DRUG LOBBY 



389 






•:■■ 



§ 



i * 

i ■•■ 




Kennedy's NORML 

■ 

Next to Jacob Javits, the most outspoken drug lobbyist in 
Washington, D.C. is Senator Edward Kennedy, the sponsor of the 
other pending marijuana decriminalization bill. As the new 
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Kennedy has 
necessarily steered away from Javits's open lobbying posture on 
behalf of drugs in order to maintain a modicum of credibility 
among the powerful law enforcement lobby. Yet the Kennedy 
family is directly represented on NORML's advisory board by 
ex -brother-in-law Peter Law ford. 

Like Javits, Kennedy too is up to his neck in Lansky-Vesco 
offshore criminal activities. At the top of Kennedy's 1976 cam- 
paign contributors list is Joseph Linsey, a leading Zionist Lobby 
"philanthropist," who is also known as the kingpin of organized 
crime in New England. Linsey is a business partner of Meyer 
Lansky in the International Airport Hotel Distributing. Inc. 

The Kennedy fortunes are even more directly linked to Lansky 
through the already documented Resorts International-Intertel 
interface- Nowhere is this interface more evident than in New 
Jersey, where a combination of Justice Department "water- 
gating specialists" teamed with a $1 million Resorts Internation- 
al lobbying and payoff campaign to legalize casino gambling. 

New Jersey Governor Brendan Byrne, who was recruited out of 
the Essex County Prosecutor's office by the Kennedy Justice 
hands and installed in the Governor's mansion, is a nationally 
prominent spokesman for drug decriminalization. As Chairman 
of the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration (LEAA) 
National Advisory Committee on Criminal Justice Standards and 
Goals, Byrne commissioned a series of studies supporting 
decriminalization of marijuana and casino gambling. 

NORML, the clearinghouse organization for the various local 
dionysian cults and Zionist Lobby "liberal" legislators, is itself a 
thinly veiled cover through which the poisoning influence of or- 
ganized crime is extended into the high schools and neighbor- 
hoods of the country. NORML is virtually indistinguishable from 
the drug cult-pornographic magazine High Times, which boasts a 



390 



DOPE, INC. 



several hundred thousand circulation predominantly among high 
school age drug users. The magazine features dozens of pages of 
advertisements for drug paraphernalia, instructions on the pro- 
duction and use of legal and illicit drugs, and pornographic photo- 
graphs and interviews with various "high priests 1 ' of the drug- 
rock cult. Through the revenues of High Times, through an aver- 
age of $100,0(10 per year in tax exempt grants from the Playboy 
Foundation, and through "frequent anonymous contributions 
from drug dealers," NORML is financed. (9) 

The Advisory Board of NORML includes <in addition to Javits 
and Peter La wford): MaxPaievsky, chairman of the board of the 
Xerox Corporation; Hugh Hefner, owner of Playboy Enterprises, 
Inc.: William F. Buckley Jr.; Burton Joseph, Director of the 
Playboy Foundation ; Canon Walter D. Dennis of the Cathedral of 
St. John the Divine in New York City, the " temple and head- 
quarters" of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem in the United 
States; and Stewart Mott, heir to the General Motors fortune. 

NORML's general counsels Michael Kennedy and Gerald 
Lefcourt, are also connected to terrorism through their defense 
of the Puerto Rican FALN (Armed Forces for National 
Liberation) and Weatherunderground leader Mark Rudd. 



THE DRUG LOBBY 



391 



Notes 



V. THE DRUG LOBBY 



1. Karen Steinberg and Marie Mendez, "The Hospice Movement — 
Taking the Pain Out of Genocide," New Solidarity, Vol. IX, No. 62. 
October G, 1978. See also Sandal Stoddard. Tbe Hospice Movement 
<Briarcliff Manor, New York: Stein & Day. 1978). 

2. Seminar listings for the Fifth Institute on Drugs. Crime and Justice in 
Britain, held in London in July 1978. The Institute has held five such 
annual conferences at the Imperial College of the University of London, 
bringing American university students and American public health 
officials to study drug abuse in Britain and the "British Model" of treat- 
ment 

3. Steinherz and Mendez. op. cit 

4. Who's Who in America (Chicago: Marquis, 1974); Annual Reports of 
the World Wildlife Fund of America. 1976 and 1977; see also. The 
Foundation Directory, 5th Edition <Ne w York : The Foundation Center) . 

5. Ford Foundation Annual Reports. 1972-78, and The Drug Abuse Council 

Annual Reports. 1972-77. 

6. NBC-TV News broadcast transcript. "Coal Fraud," Reporters Robs 

and Silverman, September, W78. 

7. Federal District Court Records of the First Circuit Court, Boston, 
Massachusetts. Additional information was provided on drug charges by 
New England-based officials of the Drug Enforcement Administration in 
September, 3978. 

6. In 1976. following Congressional hearings into the intelligences com- 
munity, the files pertaining to the Central Intelligence Agency's MK- 
ULTRA, BLUEBIRD and ARTICHOKE programs were released to the 
public. Hie FOIA documents reveal extensive details of the CXA and 
Army's experiments with mind control techniques including LSD. In 1977. 
Renee J. Roberts, the daughter of Harold Bauer who died as the result of 
a dosage of a hallucinogenic drug administered to him at the New York 
State Psychiatric Institute as part of an Army-contracted experiment, 
began a civil damages suit against officials responsible for failing to 
investigate the circumstances of her father's death. Sen. Jacob Javits isa 
defendant in that suit, stemming from his position as New York State 
Attorney General at the time of Bauer's death. 

9. Interview with Keith Stroup. Playboy Magazine. 1978; see also issues 
of NOR ML Newsletter describing anonymous contributions . 



! 



Epilogue 



On October 18, 1973, the authors of this book met in Washington, 
D.C., with eight officials of the Federal Reserve Board of 
Governors, including Mr. John E. Ryan, director of Banking 
Supervision and Regulation, and Mr. Robert Mannion, director of 
the Board of Governors' legal department. Present were two 
lawyers for the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, including the 
HongShang's chief legal counsel in the United States, Mr. Steuart 
L. Pittraan. At this meeting, the authors presented evidence 
incriminating the HongShang in the international narcotics 
traffic and argued that the Federal Reserve should block 
HongShang's proposed acquisition of 51 percent of the shares of 
the $20 billion Marine Midland Bank of New York. On October 25, 
a similar meeting was held with officials of the New York State 
Banking Authority, including New York State Deputy Super- 
intendent of Banking William Heany. 

Also, portions of the manuscript have circulated in photostat 
form for several weeks prior to publication through the State 
Department. Treasury Department, Drug Enforcement Admin- 
istration, and related enforcement and regulatory agencies. 

In public meetings and radio and television appearances in a 
dozen cities in the United States, the authors have outlined the 
contents of this book before a broad and diverse audience. 
Through these various channels, word has gotten uut. 

Most readers will have asked themselves the question that the 
authors have been asked often in the course of this report's 
preparation: "How will the powerful men who stand behind the 
narcotics traffic react to this exposure?" The answer is already 
evident, at least in part. On November 11. European collab- 



393 



394 



DOPE, INC. 



orators of the U.S. Labor Party team conducted a public 
meeting in Paris to present the results of the investigation. The 
meeting was attacked by 20 hooded and armed members of the 
fascist organization, Betar. French police were on guard and 
prevented injuries to members of the audience, but one 
policeman was injured by the assault. The French authorities 
believe that the attack was ordered by the Mossad, Israel's 
foreign secret service- The Betar was founded in the 1930s by 
Yakob Jabotinsky, a Polish Zionist who modeled himself on 
Benito Mussolini, and who was the mentor of present Israeli 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin. Undoubtedly, the decision to 
launch an attack against not only the collaborators of the 
authors, but the French police — who know well how to deal with 
such matters — indicates a great fear in the perpetrators of the 
narcotics traffic. 

What this report has intersected, however, goes far beyond the 
petty thuggery of the Mossad. Discreetly, officials of the 
HongShang warned the authors shortly after the cited meetings 
in Washington what would happen to the United States if they 
persisted: "You know, of course," an official said, "that the 
British government has made representations to the American 
authorities on behalf of the HongShang, which is after all a 
British bank. American banks have had pretty much a free run of 
it all in London, and we British rather feet that we should have 
the same privileges here. If the American authorities give us any 
trouble, the Bank of England will start exhuming skeletons from 
the closets of the American banks. ' ' 

In fact the British had already surfaced an undercover agent in 
New York's Citibank in mid-July, a junior official named David 
Edwards, who sued the bank for $14 million and made numerous 
allegations of illegal money transfer operations. Recently, after 
the HongShang official made the statement quoted above, the 
Edwards case has taken a new turn. On November 5, Katharin 
Graham's Washington Post added major new expose material to 
Edwards's original allegations, citing its own sources inside 
Citibank. The authors have learned that Katharin Graham is 
personally directing Edwards's appearances before one Senate 
and three House of Representatives committees. 



EPILOGUE 



395 



Coming at a time when the British banks are making a massed 
bid to acquire American banking assets, the inside -outside job 
against Citibank is ominous. Apart from the HongShang' s cited 
plan to acquire Marine Midland, the Canadian Bank of Montreal 
wants to buy out 81 retail branches of New York's Bankers Trust ; 
Standard and Chartered Bank wants to buy up the $3 billion 
Union Bank of Caliornia ; and buy-out attempts or branch office 
openings are in the works involving Barclays Bank, National 
Westminster Bank, Bank Leumi, Bank Hapoalim, and other 
financial institutions implicated in the world narcotics traffic. An 
invasion is on against the already weakened American monetary 
system, and the evidence suggests that the British dope-runners 
are deliberately seeking to destabilize American banks to further 
this invasion. 

Apart from the dirty tricks operations aimed at American 
banks, numerous other attempts will emerge from the dope-traf- 
fickers to cushion themselves from the impact of this report. 
Lower-level operatives, expendable portions of the network may 
be sacrificed, the way that assassins like Lee Harvey Oswald or 
Sirhan Sirhan were sacrificed by their masters. 

But the enemy cannot recoup what it has lost. The $200 billion 
dope trade cannot be hidden ; it can only be protected through 
misdirection. The web of lies now hangs in tatters. If the 
American public forces its legislators and law enforcement 

officials to act, Dope, Inc.'s defense will no longer avail. The first 
blood has already been drawn from a group of gentlemen who 
have been long accustomed to working at a distance from the 
combat zone. The terms of the battle have been redrawn to make 
an American victory possible. 

Konstandinos Kalimtgis 
David Goldman 
Jeffrey Steinberg 

New York City 
November 17, 1978 




396 



DOPE, INC 



Index 



AharKuvemy, Lord, 336 

Addams, Jane, 46, 47 

Adloff,R.90 

Adorno, Thcodor, 373 

Air America. 151 

Airport Hotel Distributing, [tic, 
389 

Albert Parvin Foundation, 49 

Aleman, Miguel. 235 

Alinsky. Saul, 48, 371 

Alpert. Richard, 370, 372,377 

American Friends Service Com- 
mittee, 317-348 

Andreyev, M.A.; 97, 108, 109. 131- 
133. 137 

Angleton, James Jesus. 319 

Anglo-American Corp., 100, 101, 
103.142,154,155.176 

Anstinger, Harry, 125, 126, 12S 

Anti-Saloon League. 45,47 

Arbuckle, William, 279 

Aristotelian Society, iv, 216 

Aspen Institute. 96 

Astor family, 3S-39, 40, 45. 293 

Astor, John Jacob, 38-39, 42, 153 

Astor, Waldorf. 42, 153 

Atlas Shipping Company, 272 



B 



"BabaRamDas,"102 
Bacardi family, 285 
Bacon family, 40 

Bacon, Sir Ranulph. 325, 327 

Ba'haicult,46 

Bahama, 44, 71-73, 74-77, 93. 264, 

303, 322. 326. 377 
Bakunin Mikhail. ?«. ?$ 
Baifour. Arthur, 178, 216 
Bancroft. Baron Stormon, 311-312 
Bangkok Metropolitan Bank. 81.35 
Bank of Bangkok, 81 . 65. S6-87, 89 
Bank of China. 116, 119, 123. 132, 

145, 150 
Bank of England. 26. 72, 74, 394 
Bank fiir Gemeinwirtschaft. 313 
Bank Hapoalim, 101. 302, 305. 311. 

312.313,319,395 



Bank Lcumi. 101. 104, 154, 155, 219, 

311,312,319 349,395 
Bank of the Middle Fast, 44. 94, 

101.141.159 
Bank of Montreal. 29. 30, 81, 166, 

170.279.395 
Kanfc of Norfolk, 336 
Bank of Nova Scotia, SI, 101. 105, 

140,162, 163. 166, 167, 168, 171, 172 
Bank of World Commerce. 309, 310, 

326 
Bannister, Guy. 305-306. 31 9 
Banquc dc Credit Internationale 

(BCD. 309,312, 313.321,325 
Banque Bruxelles-Lambert. 104 
Banque Louis Drey fuss. 281 
Banque Privee, 74 
Barbados. 71-73 
Barclays Bank, 101, 104, 105. 153. 

182, 166. 172, 176. 219, 311, 34S. 395 
Baring Brothers. 158 
Baring family. 10. 19. 39. 40. 34S 
Baring, George, 13 
Baring, N. 158 
Barnctt, A. Doak, 131 
Baruch, Dr. Kuttner, 27-2S 
Baruch, Bernard. 28 
Basel, 2G4, 302, 308, 309 
Base I or Handclsbank, 74 
Butcson, Gregory. 370, 373-372 
Beaverbrook, Lord, 45. 46. 299. 305 
Belisle, David, 327 
Belmont, August, 27. 34, 35 
Benjamin. Judah P., 27.29. 30 
Bcnsinger, Peter, 383 
fienlham, Jeremy, 39 
Bernstein, Nahum, 387 
Betar. 394 

Bingham, William, 39-40 
Binny, J.A.F.. 74, 156, 159. ICG 
Biuman. William. 297. 340 
Black, Eugene, Sr.,386 
Blair and Co.. 292 
Blavatsky, Helena, 182, 216. 367, 

368 

Bloch, George, 316 

Bloch, Henry Simon, 387 

Blonmfield. Major Louis Mor- 
timer. 30. 283, 301, 303-304, 305. 
306. 307, 308, 310. 313. 358, 319, 325, 
327 



INDEX 



397 



B'nai B'rith. 26. 27, 2S 31. 33. 34. 

316,319,338,342.368 
Bolles. Don. 330. 332. 334. 335, 339 
Borahesc, Elisabeth Mann. 367, 378 
Boudine. James. 346-347 
Boudine, Robert. 346-347 
Bourne, Peter, .171,384 
Brewster. Kingman, 385 
British Petroleum. 141, 152, 154, 

156, 164 
British Secret intelligence Service. 

45.46. 121. 30B 

British Special Air Service, 2K7 
Brampton mixture. 384 
Bronfman, Abe, 270 

Bronfman. Allan. 281 

Bronfman. Charles, I<0. 172. 279. 

281 
Bronfman, Edgar, 5. 220, 282. 283. 

2S5. 387 
Bronfman family, 11, 36, 47, 50. 62. 

141, 162 163. 164, 165. 166. 172. 173, 

219. 220. 268, 263-276. 2S0-2S8, 290, 

319,332,333,341,343.387 
Bronfman, Harry. 272 
Bronfman, Mitchell, 285-287 
Bronfman. Phyllis, 284 
Bronfman. Samuel. 3. 31, 270, 272, 

280 283, 288 
Bronfman. Samuel II, 284-285 
Bronfman. Yechiei. 33, 36. 269-271 
Brotherhood of Eternal Love. 377 
Brown, Rudnick. Freed, Gesmar. 

290 
Brown. Willie. 383 
Bruce. Charles, 377 
Bruce. Edward. 181 
Bruce family, 18. 176. 218; family 

tree, 223-240 
Bruce, Frederick, 180 
Bruce, James. 180, 216 
Bruce, King Robert. 179. 180 
Buckley, William F„ Jr.. 390 
Bulwer-Lytton, Edward. 178, 181. 

182,215.216,217,367,368 
Bundy. McGeorge. 296 
Burbridge, F.S..279 



Caccia, Lord. 155, 156 

Campaign to Re-Elect Hugh 

Carey, 268 
Canadian Imperial Bank. 101. 166. 

169.171,172 
Canadian Institute of International 

Affairs, 146. 161, 162. 163, 168, 173 



Canadian Jewish Congress, 2K1 
Canadian Pacific. Ltd., 165. 168. 

169,170,172,179,271,279.281 
Canadian Red Cross Ambulance 

Corporation. 284 
CapQcetto.313.3i6 
Capone. Al, 47, 43,274,336 
Caribbean Anti-Communist 

League. 306 
Carol la, Sylvestro, 37 
Carter, James Earl, 3. 75, 384 
Castro, Fidel, 284, 299, 323 
Cater, Jack, 111 
Cator. W.J.. 87 
Catto, Lord, 41, 158. 159 
Cavendish. C.W.. Duke of 

Devonshire, 165 
Cavendish, William. 165, 294 
Cayman Islands, 70, 71-73, 74, 75, 76 
Cecil. Lord Robert. 145, 181 
Cellini. Pino, 322, 328 
Cellini, Eddie. 328 
Center for the Study of Democratic 

Institutions, 49. 378 
Central External Liaison 

Department, 119, 120 
Central Intelligence Agency 

(CIA). 93. 128, 149, 252. 318 
Central Narcotics Board. 23 
Central Selling Organization 

(CSO).63.67.104 
Centro Mondiale Commerciule 

(CMC), 303. 310,313. 316 
Chamberlain, Houston Stewart, 

182 
Ch'ao Chou Chinese. 81. 85-86, 90. 

103.104.117,124.129-134,137 
Charterhouse Japhet, 79, 81. 104, 

141,154,157.311.344,348 
Chartered Bank. 10. 132, 144 
Chase Manhattan Bank, 114, 136 
Chen, K. P.. 145. 150 
Chen Yi. 148 

Chester, Louis, 322. 324, 336 
Chiang Kai-shek, 132. 148, 150, 151 
Chi Ch'ao-ting, 143 
China Association. 142.159 
China. People's Republic of. 42, 51, 
60-61, 78. 93, 99. 113-138, 139, 145, 
168.221,342 
Chinese Arts and Crafts. 119 
Chinese Communist Intelligence 
Service <CCIS). 115, 117. 119-120. 
121, 126, 129, 131, 142 
Chinese General Chamber of 

Commerce, 118. 119 
Chinese People's Institute of 
Foreign Affairs. 146 



398 



DOPE, INC. 



Chou En-lai, 113. 114. 126, 337. 142, 
145. 146. 151, 152,168. 169,181 

Churchill, Winston. 146. 14?. 220, 
221.292.306,317,366 

Citibank, 7!, 394.395 
Clarke. William Malpas. 156 
Clarkson and Gordon, 162, 169 
Clarkson, Stephen. 162 
Clay. William. 343 
Cleveland, Harlan. 96 

Cliveden Set. 293, 375 

Cohen. Avern, 342 

Cohen. Lazarus, 281 

Cohen. Lyon, 281 

Colosimo, Big Jim, 274 

Combined Jewish Philanthropies 
of Boston, 290 

Commonwealth Fund, 386 

Communist Labor Party. 342 

Consolidated Gold Fields of South 
Africa, 94, 96. 99, 103. 123,157, 158 

Consolidated Holdings, Ltd.. 121 

Comfeld, Bernard, 49, 325. 378 

Corporate Bank and Trust Com- 
pany of Freeport. Grand 
Bahamas, 2SS 

Cotioni, Guiseppe, 323 

Coudert Brothers, 75 

Credit Suisse. 304. 310 

Cremieux. Adolphe Isaac, 29 

Crnsby, James M., 323-324 

Crosby-Miller Co.. 323 
Crowley, Aleister. 132, 367, 368 
Crown- Lundheimcr mob, 334 
Cult of Mizraem, 3) 
Cunard Shipping Lines. 312 



D 



D-16,121 

Dal la Chiesa, General Carlo. 317, 

318 
Dalitz. Morris. 333,334 

D'Amdio, Carlo, 317 

Davis. Jefferson. 29. 3(1 

Deacon. Richard, 119. 120. 121, 137, 

249 
De Beers, 63, 67, 100, 191. 103, 104. 

144. 1S4, 155, 219 
de Gaulle. Charles. 36, 287. 299, 302, 

303, 306 
de Gunzburg family, 221. 281. 328 
de Efirsch family. 26. 29 i 33, 270. 319 
de Hirsch Foundation, 268. 280 
DeMenil. John. 318 
de Molav, Jacijue.s, 179 
Dennis. Canon Waiter D., 390 



Dent family. 10, 40 
Dent, R.D.. 74. 159.166 
Dcrnberg. Dr. Ernest, 371 
Devonshire family. 294. 295, 298 
Dewey. Thomas, 271. 323 
de Zulueta, Philip, 1B3, 157. 158, 163 
Diamond, Legs. 271. 274 
Dillon. C. Douglas, 71 

Disraeli, Benjamin, 26. 28, 33, 34, 

37.45,267 
Distilling Company of London, 272 
Dole, Sen. Robert. 335 
"Double-Chek."318.328 
Drake, Sir Eric, 164.219, 279 
Drexel Burnham Lambert, 167 
Drug Abuse Council, 366 
Drug Enforcement Administration 

(DEA). 2, 3. 37. 44. 51, 63, 65. 76, 

$0. 86, 326, 34S, 383. 384 
Dubai. 45. 94-95. 99 
Dulles, Allen. 317. 368. 370 



Eagle Star Insurance Company, 

162-163,171.282 
East India Company. 12-13, 14. 19, 

39,40,84,153.267 
Elgin. Lord — see Bruce family 
Elliot. Charles, 14-15 
Elliott, William Yandell. 298 

Endicott. James. 146. 153 
Enpelhard Minerals, 101 
Emprise. 297, 330 333, 335, 340 

343 
English Property Corp. Ltd., 162, 

171.282 
Epstein. Edward Jay, 319 
Esposito, Giuseppe, 35. 36 



F 



Fabian Society, 4b 

Fair Play for Cuba Committee, 306 

Farmer. Victor. 143. 147 

Federal Bureau of Investigation 

(FBJ), 296, 327; Division Five, 

305.307.317.316,328 
Ferdman, Sylvain, 310, 313 
Fcrrie, David, 319 
Ferris, Paul, 96 

Fidelity Bank of Philadelphia, 347 
Fidelity Guards, 122 
Fiduciary Trust Company, 326, 377 
Firstmark Corporation, 338 
First National Bank of Boston, 41 
First Pennsylvania Bark, 346 



INDEX 



Fisher, Max. 339.341, 343 
Ftegenheimer, Arthur, aka Dutch 

Schultz.27l.274 
Fleming. Ian, 329 
Fok. Henry. US 
Forbes. John Murray, 40 
Forbes, William Hathaway. 40 
Forcas Aramadas de Libcraci6n 

Nacional(FALNj,347 

Ford Foundation, 378, 3S6 

4-Star Anstalt, 377 

"French Connection/' 125 

Freuhauf Trucking Company. 341 

Friedman, Milton, 48 

Front pour la Liberation du 
Quebec (FLQ). 287 

Fund of Funds, 37S 



G 



Gandhi, Mahatma.21 

Garrison. Jim, 30, 36. 301. 303, 316, 

317,318 
Geddes, Sir Auckland. 219 
George 111, 13, 178 
Gilmer, John, 160,172 
Gilsyd Corporation, 33S 
Giordano. Anthony, 332. 343 
Girard. Stephen. 40 
Gold Seal Liquor Company, 48 
Gulden Triangle, 59, BO. 64-65, 66, 

72, 78-80. 81. 85. 92-95. 108, 128, 

132.133,136,139 
Golds-mid family. 20, 101. 267 
Gordon, Walter Lockhart. 146. 161. 

162,166.168.169.170.173 
Graiver, David, 312, 355 
Great Britain-China Committee, 

142, 159 
Green, Charles Fiddian, 122 
Green Gangs. 145. 151. 277. 278, 337. 

343 
Green Shirt Nazis, 31 
Green. Timothy, 94, 95 
Grey. Albert, 178,215 
Grierson, Ronald, 156 



H 

Haganah.281,311 

Hagerman. Max, 3)6 
Hague Convention <1911). 20-21 
Haig. Field Marshal, 272 
Haight-Ashbury. 372 
Hardinge. Viscount. 316 
Harris. Sam, 387 



Hart, Sir Robert. 41 
Hartford. Huntington, 323 
Harvard University, 41, 102. 370 
Haushofei, Erich. 215, 216 
Hayden, Stone and Co., 291 
Hazel Park Racing Association, 

332 
Hefner. Hugh. 390 
Heikal. Mohammed. 125. 126 
Heritage Canada, 284 
Herring, Richard L. f 388 
Herzen, Alexander, 28 
Hesselbach, Walter, 322 
High Times, 389-390 
Hill, Samuel. 157. 158, 1G2, 163 
Histadrut, 284. 302, 304. 311. 319 
Hitchcock, William Mellon. 376-378 
Hitler, Adolf, 31. 182. 215-216, 217. 

260 

Ho. Stanley. 91. 118, 119. 120, 152 

Ho Yin. 119 

Hoffa, Jimmy. 29/ 

Hog Island. 323. 325 

Holland, William. 143. 149, 152 

Holloman. Daniel, 297. 340 

Hong Kong. British Crown Colony 
of, 10-11. 16. 20. 37, 44. 60. 71, 72. 
74. 76. 76. "7. 79. 80. 82-84. 88, 97, 
99. 100. 104. 106. 112. 114, 116. 118, 
123. 125. 120129. 134-136. 139, 149- 
153 

Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation. 10. 12. 17. 19. 22, 40, 

59, 62, 69, 75, 79. 80. 61, 83-87, 92 

94, 96-97. 99, 100. 101. 103, 10G, 108. 

110. Ill, 114, 117. 123. 124. 130-133. 

140, 141. 150. 152, 154. 156, 163. 164. 

165. lfifl. 172, 175, 176. 177. 179, 181. 

182. 2!8, 219. 220. 278. 279, 338, 339, 

393, 394-395; London Committee 

Of, 39. 41. 140. 142. 157, 158, 159, 

172 
Hong Kong Jockey Club, 118. 119 
Hong Kong Land Company. 116 
Hospice. Inc., 385 
House Select Committee on Drug 

Abuse, 126 
Hudson's Bay Company. 163-165. 

166, 171, 219.270. 279.292, 333 
Hundley. William, 297, 324. 325. 327 
Hutchins. Robert Maynard. 48. 368- 

369. 378 
Huxley. Aldous. iv. 182. 216. 306- 

371, 373. 376. 37S 
Huxley, Thomas. 366 
Hutien-Fa, 86 
Hutein-Hsiang, 86 



400 



DOPE, INC. 



INDEX 



401 



Illinois Wholesale Liquor Dealers 

Association. 48 
Imperial Chemical Industries, 143 
Imperial Chinese Customs Ser- 
vice, 4! 
Inchcape and Co., 102, 217 
Inchcape family , 164, 176,277 
Inchcape. Earls of, 22. 102. 157-158. 

219-320,279 
Inchcape Report, 22, 102 
Independent Commission Against 

Corruption. 111-112. 115 
India. British Crown Colony of. 13, 

15, 16, 18, 20, 21. 28, 30, 94, 95, 9G. 

180,215,222 
India Commission, 22 
Indonesian Communist Party, 130 
The Innocents, 35 
Institute on Drugs. Crime and 

Justice, 385 
Institute for Pacific Relations, 42, 

141. 143. 145. 146, 147. 149. 150, 151. 

159,162,168.169 
Institute for Policy Studies, 376 
Institute of Social Research, 373 
International Airport Hotel 

Systems, Inc.. 290 

International Institute for 

Strategic Studies, 3&? 
Internationa) Intelligence (Jn- 

tertel),297, 321-329, 343 
International Monetary Fund, 75, 

148, 167 
International Red Cross, 218 
Inverforth. Lord, 292 
Investors Overseas Service (lOS), 

49.309,310,325.377,379.388 
Isis-Urania Temple of Hermetic 

Students of the Golden Dawn, 367 
Israeli-American Leasing, 338 
Israeli Continental Corporation, 

283, 303. 312 
IsropS.A.,338 
hale-American Hotel Corporation, 

313 



J 



Jackman, Henry R., 173 
Jackson, Henry 'Scoop," 264. 337 
Jacobs family. 4, 290. 330-343 
Jacobs, Jeremy, 334, 335, 33S. 339, 

340. 343 
Jacobs. Max, 76, 297. 334, 335. 337. 

338, 339 



Japanese Narcotics Bureau, 127 
Japhet. Ernst Israel. 104. 154. 311, 

312, 313. 344 
Jardine Matheson and Co., Ltd., 

10. 13. 14-15. 19, 41. 7$, 81. 100. 101. 

116. 120, 121, 122, 140, 141. 142, 147, 

156. 157. 158. 164.166, 176, 217, 219, 

265. 270. 279 
Jarecki. Dr. Henry. 102. 168 
Javits. Sen. Jacob. 264. 2SS, 384. 

38fi-388, 389 
Jay (Choi), K.C. 119 
Jerusalem Foundation. Canada, 

155. 270. 313. 337 
Jewish Agency. 310. 312 
Jewish Colonization Association, 

2S1 

Jewish Community Council, 342 
Johnson Matlhey. 101. 157, 158 
Joint Distribution Committee, 281. 

33S 
Joseph, Burton, 390 



K 



Kahn. Otto. 221 

Kaiser Foundation, 385-386 

Kan Kuam Tsing Company, 99 

Kso. C.H.,119 

Katzenberg, Yasha, 218. 276 

Keith. Sir Kenneth, 163. 232 

Kens Biao, 120 

Kennedy, Edward, 5. 266, 2S9, 300. 

384. 385. 389-390 
Kennedy family, 11. 50. 221. 289-300 
Kennedy, John F„ 10, 30, 3f>, 71, 

123, 165. 289. 295. 296, 298-299. 301, 

376 
Kennedy, Joseph R. Sr.. 43-44, 48, 

165.290-29fi.299. 367 
Joseph and Rose Kennedy Institute 

for the Study of Human 

Reproduction and Bioethics, 3K5 
Kennedy, Kathleen. 294 
Kennedy, P. J., 291 
Kennedy, Robert F.. 290, 296-297. 

299.327 
Kennedv. Michael, 39H 

Kennedy. Thomas, 297 

Kcscy, Ken, 371, 372 

Keswick family. 3. 10. 11. 141. 164. 

176.217,218.221 
Keswick. Henry Neville Lindley, 

116.156,158.165.170,218.219 
Keswick, Sir John Henry, 100. 140- 

141, 142. 145. 146. 147, 148, 149. 152, 

153, 15Q. 158, 159. 217.218,277. 278 



i 



Keswick. Sir William Johnston, 
147, 152, 15G. 158. 164. 165. 170. 218. 
279 

King, William MacKen*ie, 46 
Kipling. Rudyard, 43, 173. 216 
Kissinger. Henry, 51 , 113, 126.340 
Kittikachorn. Narong. 85 

Kiwanis Club of Singapore. 130 

Klein wort Benson. 156, 157, 164 

Knight, Andrew. 156 

Knight, Sir Arthur. 156 

Knights of Columhus. 32, 54 

Knights of the Golden Circle. 27, 26 

Knights Templar, 179 

Koch. Edward. 384. 387 

Kottler, Murray. 284. 336 

Koler. William, 324. 325 

Koskoff, DavidS.. 294 

Kuhnl.oeb.45. 220. 270,293 

Kui Kwing Company, 1 1 6 

Ku Klux K!an. 27-28, 34, 35, 46-47, 

177 
Kuomintang. 148. 151 

I 

Laing.R.D..372 

Lambert family. 104 

Lambert, Jean. 282 

Lansky. Meyer, 3. 5. 11, 37, 44, 50, 

263. 275. 278. 285, 290, 297. 307, 30$. 

309, 313. 317.322, 324, 325. 326. 327, 

328, 333. 343. 367, 377, 378, 387, 3HS 
LaRouche, Lyndon H„ iii-iv, v, 342 
Latourette. Dr. Kenneth Scott, 38 
Lawford, Peter. 389-390 
Lawson, James, 388 
Lazard family, 27, 34, 221 
Lazard Freres, 176, 177. 2fl3 
League of Nations. 21. 22, 44, 102, 

220 
Leary, Timothy, 102. 370. 372. 376, 

385 
Lefcourt. Gerald, 390 
Leh m an Brothe rs , 1 9 
Lehman family, 19, 34 
Letheby and Christopher. Ltd.. 331 , 

336 
Levi, Edward. 335 
Lcwin, Dr. Kurt, 376 
Liechtenstein, 70, 71, 76, 264, 308, 

309.338.377 
Ligue Internationale contre TAnti- 

Semilisme(LICA>.316 
Lin, Dr. Paul, 146. 16S-163 
Lin Tse-hsu p'ing. 14, 15, 16, 145 
Lin.Dr.Tsina, 169 



Lincoln, Abraham, 10, 1). 25. 29-30, 

35,37 
Lindley. Frederick. 218. 219 
Linscy, Joseph, 289. 3S9 
Lloyd. A.D.F.. 220 
Lloyds Bank, 101, 158, 162. 166.282 
I-obenthal. Richard. 342 
Loeb family, 27, 270 
Locb, Rhoades, and Co,, 101 
Lombard Odier. 74 
London School of Economics, 295, 

258 
Lothian. Lord, 294 
Loudon, John, 386 
Luang Prabang. 128 
Luce, Henry, 146 
Luciano, Charles "Lucky," 31. 278. 

307,319 
Lytton, Edward. 215-216. 218 



Macheca. Joseph, 34-36. 341 
Mackay. J.W., 3rd Earl of Inch- 
cape. 157-158, 219-220. 279' 
MackayTallack, Sir Hugh. 220 
MaeMillan Bloedel, 165, 170, 293 
Macmillan. Harold, 165. 298 
Magna Development Company, 

no 

Malnik, Alvin,309 
Matthus, Thomas. 10 
Manichaean cult, 46 
Mantello, Enrico. 303, 318 
Mantello, George, aka George 

Mandel.303,316 
Mao Tse-tung, 61, 137.142, 148 
Marathon Oil Company, 341 
Marceilo. Carlos, 37. 265. 317 
Mar den, John, 111 
Marine Midland Bank. 75, 337-339. 

393, 395 
Mary Carter Paint Company, 271. 

322 325 377 
Matheson family, 10, 14-15, 19, 40, 

100,164.217.219 
Matheson, Hugh. 21? 
Matrenga, Charles, 34. 36 
Mattei, Enrico. 36, 302-303, 307. 317 
Mazzini, Guiseppe, 10, 28. 33, 34-35, 

47 
McCarran Committee, 143, 149-150 
McClellan Committee, 276 
McCleary, Donald, 287 
McCr-ary. Tex, 324 
McFadyean, Sir Andrew, 143, 147, 

MS 



402 



DOPE, INC. 



McLaney. Big Mike. 324 
McLaughlin. W.E., 172 
McKeon, Thomas J., 297. 328 
Mellon, Andrew, 376 
Messick, Hank. 308.322 
Metaphysics! Society, 216 
Meyer. Andre, 293.296 
Michener, Roland, 173 

Midland Bank. 157, 158, 102-103. 168 
Milner's Kindergarten, 43, 144 
Milner. Lord, 43. 140, 144. 173. 178, 

1S2, 255,218. 219 
Mills, Stanley. 297, 330 
Mitchell, Parren, 343 

MK-Ultra. 370 

Mocatta family. 26, 267 

Mocatta Metals, 100, 101. 103, 168 

MonnetetCie..292 

Montagu family, 101. 103 

Samuel Montagu and Co.. 101, 11)2, 

103. 157. 159. 218 
Montefiore family, 26, 27. 28. 33, 

103. 270. 273. 280, 319 
Montefiore. Lord Harold Sebag, 

270 
Montefiore. Sir Moses. 26, 2$. 31, 

207, 2C9 
Morgan etCie.. 41, 156,219 
Morgan Grenfeli. 41. 15$ 
Morgan Guaranty Trust, 41 
Morgan, J. Bartlett, 279 
Morgan, J.P., 41 
Moro. Aldo. 36, 74, 303- 
Morse, Samuel 25 

Mossad. 31, 102, 26-1, 302, 310, 311. 

313,327 
Most Venerable Order of Si. John 
of Jerusalem, 26, 31, 32, 35, 48, 
168, 172. 173, 178, 179, 219, 222, 
270, 2SI, 295,312,313,348, 349. 384- 
385. 3SG. 390 
Mott, Stewart, 390 
"MOVE." 346-347 
Movement for a New Society, 346- 

349 
MulJin. Edward M., 328 
Murder, Incorporated. 275, 326 
Mussolini. Benito. 274. 306. 316 
Mystics Art World, Inc. , 377 



N 



Nagy.Ferenc. 316, 317.318 
Nasser, Gamel Ahdel. 113, 125-126, 

137 
National Basketball Association, 

335 



National Committee on the 
Treatment of Intractable Pain 
(NCTIP).3B5 

National Hospice Organizing 

Meeting. 1st Annual. 385 
National Institute on Drug Abuse, 2 
National Jewish People's Relief 

Committee (Canada). 281 
National Organization for the 

Reform of Marijuana Laws 

(NORM L). 388-390 
National People's Congress. 132 
National Security Agency (NSA), 

327 
National Westminster Bank. 155, 

156.166,172,395 
Navasky. Victor. 296 
New York Clearinghouse, 69, 76 
New York Diamond Dealers Club, 

104 

Newbigging, David. 41 
Newman. Peter, 283 
Niagara Frontier Services. 338, 339 
Nicholson, John Robert. 169 

Nitti. Frank, 48 

Nixon, Richard, 51, 66. 127-128. 332, 

334, 337, 383 
Noranda Mines. 101. 105, 167 
Norman Bethune Institute, 146, 169 
Nutt, Levi, 276 



Oberlin College. 46 

O'Brien, Larry, 335 

Obront. Willie, 285, 286 

O'Connell, John D.. 327 

Odd Fellows, 27 

Official Secrets Act (Canada), 161 

Official Secrets Act (Great 

Britain). 161 
Office of Strategic Services, 149. 

3SS 
Office of War Information, 149 
"Operation Trade-winds." 324 
Opium Wars, 9. 12-24, 222 
Oppenheimer family; 104, 266 
Qppenheimer. Sir Ernest. 104 
Oppenheimcr, Sir Harry, 103, 104, 

154, 1S5 
Order of the Golden Dawn, 177, 182 
Order of the Sons of the Covenant, 

27 
Order of Zion, 10, 11, 26, 27, 28-2$, 

35,32,37,177,304 
Organized Crime Strike Force, 236, 

324, 327, 332, 333 



INOEX 



403 



Organized Motherlove, 46 

Ormsby-Gorc, David (Lord 
Harlech), 298 

Osmond, Dr. Humphrey. 36S, 372 

Ostiguy.J.P.W.,172 

Oswald, Lee Harvey. 30G 

Overseas Chinese Affairs Com- 
mittee, 132 

Overseas Chinese Bank. 101 

Overseas Chinese Industrial 
Construction Co., 135 

Overseas Chinese Investment 
Corp., 135, 137 

Oxford University, 43. 36« 

Oyler. Ralph. 276 



Pacific A Corporation, 338 
Pacifies Foundation, 370 
Paco Pharmaceuticals, 344-345 
Pagoda North ,286 
Paine. Thomas. 178 
Palevsky.Max,390 
Pallavtrfni family. 31 7-31 8 
Palmerston, Lord, 14-30, 45. 177, 

181, U2, 215, 218, 367 
Pang Hock-Hm. 130-131 
Pao San and Co.. 33 
Paradise Island, Grand Bahamas, 

321.323,326.328 
Parravacini Bank Ltd.. 377-373 
Parravacini. Johann F.. 377 
Parry, Laurence, 122 
Parvin-Dohrman Co., 378 
Parvin Foundation. 378 
Patriarcha. Raymond. 290, 333 
Pease family, 220 
Peixotto, Benjamin, 31 
Peloquin, Robert, 297, 324, 325, 327, 

339, 370 
Peninsular and Orient Steam 

Navigation Company (P&O), 10, 

19, 22. 79. 81, 141. 151. 164, 176. 

219. 220. 279 
J.C. Penncy's, 377 
Pennwalt Pharmaceuticals, 344- 

S45 
Perceval, Spencer, 217 
Perkins family, 40, 291 
Perkins, Thomas Nelson, 41 
Pcrmindex, 30. 301-320. 321-329 
Peterson, Henry. 297. 327. 340, 347 
Philadelphia Foundation, 345-347, 

34a 

Philadelphia Society of Friends, 
346-347,348-349 



Phillips, Bloomficld. Vincbcrg, 

and Goodman. 282, 304 
Phillips, Captain Mark, 336 
Philips, lazarus. 166, 262, 2Bl, 304 
Phillips. Neil, 166 
Pierre-Bloch, Jean, 316 
Pike, General Albert. 28, 33-35 
Ping Chia-hsiang, 134 
Pitt. William, 39 
Playboy Foundation. 390 
Pocock, Carmichael C.P. . 156 
Poe, Edgar Allan. 25. 63 
Potai, Michael B., 332 
Popper, Sir Karl, 216 
Porter. Stephen, 22 
Powell. Sir Richard, 155 
Princess Anne, 336 
Professional Sports Publications, 

331 

Progressive Liberal Party. 324 
Prohibition, 3, 11 . 42. 44-50. 140. 160, 

164. 165? 166. 219. 376 
"Protocols of the Elders of Zion,'" 

32 
Puerto Rican Socialist Party. 347 
Pullman, John. 308, 313 
Pureed, Victor, 87 
Pure Drug Company, 164. 270. 2?9. 

333 
Purple Gang of Detroit. 334, 341 

R 

Radziwill. Lee and Stanislaus. 295 
RAND Corporation. 369 

Raskin. Marcus. 376 
Ray, James Earle, 302 
Red Brigades. 28, 316. 317 

Reinfeld Syndicate, 274. 292 

Reinhart,H.R.,96.97,99 

Ronnie, Charles Tat ham Ogilvy, 

121 

Rennie family, 120-122 
Rennie, Gordon, 122 
Rennie, Sir John, 121 

Republic National Bank, 101 
Resorts International. 290, 321-329, 

343,377.383,389 
Rhodes. Cecil. 43. 100, 104. 144. 177, 

178.182.218 
Rhodes Trust, 216, 213 
Rio Tinto Zinc, 19. 140. 154-155, 157. 

158.164,217.218.219.387 
RKO Studios, 292. 367 
Roberts, Sir Frank, 155, 157. 158 
Robinson. J.R., 156. 157 
Rocco, Mike, 290 



404 



DOPE, INC. 



Rochdale College, 169 
Rochwarger, Leonard, 338 
Rockefeller family, 45 
Rockefeller Foundation. 46 
Rockefeller, John D., 1, 46 
Rohm and Haas, 344, 34? 
Romania. 31,36, 177 
Roosa. Robert V., 70 

Roosevelt, Franklin D., 293, 306 
Ronnine, Chester, 14G. 151, 152, 153, 

168 

Rosenbaum, Tibor, 305, 330. 311. 

312. 319, 325 
Rosicrucianism, 177, 182 
Rosa, Arthur. 387 

Ross, William, 272 

Rothschild. N.M. and Sons Ltd.. 

100, 101. 103. 154, 155, 162. 176 
Rothschild, Edmond de, 74. 154, 

155, 338 
Rothschild family, It). 19, 27, 28, 29, 

33. 44, 103, 104. 105, 178, 221, 265, 

268,270,280,319,325 
Rothstein. Arnold. 44. 165, 273. 274, 

277, 278, 30S 
Round Table. 43, 45, 145. 366, 374 
Royal Bank of Canada, 101, 166, 

167.170,172.233,328 
Royal Commission on Customs. 272 
Royal Dutch Shell-Ul, 156. 38G 
Royal Institute of International 

Affairs (RIIA).-41, 42, 43. 60-61. 

73, 117, 139-159, lfi4, 169, 177, 17K, 

215.218.295,386 
Royal Uquor Commission, 47 

Rudd, Mark. 390 

Ruskin.John, 17$. 215. 216, 218 
Russell and Company, 40, 41 
Russell, Rertrand, iv, 17. 181, 216. 

375 
Russell. Lord John, 1 7. 181 . 21 6 
Bertrand Russell Peace Foun- 
dation. 376 



Russell Sage Foundation, 46-47 

St. Christopher's Hospice. 384 

Salerno, Ralph, 49 

Sailors Union ofHong Kong, SO, 119 

Samuel family. 103, 163 

Samuel. Viscount Erwin Herbert, 

312 

Sandberg.M.G., J 72 

Saudis, George N„ 29 
Sandoz, A.G..368,370 



Sands. Sir Stafford. 322, 325 
E.D. Sassoon. Ltd., 75 
Sassoon family, 40. 268. 277 
Savoy, House of, 303. 317, 319 
Saxe. Susan, 46, 347. 348 
Schiff, Jacob, 27 
Schlumberger Corporation, 316 

Schoelkopf, Paul, 338 
Schrocdei' family. 217, 220, 266 

Scottish Rite of Freemasonry. 17. 

25, 26-27, 28. 29. 37, 177. 180. 181, 

182, 295 
5DECE.302.303.304 
Seagram, 81. 1M. 165-166. 167, 171- 

172,269. 279. 2S1. 283.285 
Scbag-Montefiore. Robin, 338 
Sebregondi, Paolo. 318 
Sebregondi. Stefano. 318 
Securex, 287 

Seligman Bank of Zurich, 318 
Seligmanfamily, 278, 281, 2S2 
Seligman, Hans, 318 
Seligman. Joseph, 27 
Semyoncv, Julian, 307 
Service, John S-, 143.146 
Seymour, Horatio, 34-35 
Shanghai. 20, 37, 44. 128. 147-150, 

276-277 
Shanghai Commercial Bank, 145. 

150 
Shanghai International Settle- 
ment. 20, 147.270 
Shanghai Municipal Settlements. 

164.218 
Sharps Pixley Wardley, 93, 96, 100- 

101.157,164 
Shaw brothers. 11B 
Shaw. Clay. 301-303. 318 
Shaw. George Bernard, 294 
Shawcross, Lord. 158. 159 
Shenker, Morris. 333, 343 
Sheridan, Walter. 296. 302. 327 
Shih Tiefa-pi, 125 
Sicilian Compagnia Amatrice 

Industriale Petrolifera Ar- 

matoviole, 316 
Siegel, Benjamin "Bugs." 275. 367 
SimeDarby.JOl 

Singer. Mike, 30? 

Singapore, 59. 71-73. 94.208-109, 112 

Sino-British Trade Council, 142, 159 

Skinner. William. 87 

Smith. Adam. 10, 13,60-61 

Smith, David, 371 

Smith, Roger, 371 

Smith, Kline and French, 344 



INDEX 



405 



Socialist International, 302, 341 

Society of Heaven and Earth — see 

Triad Society 
Society of Jesus. 14, 26. 2a 
Somerset Importers, Ltd., 292-2S3 
Soung family. 265, 275-279. 232 
Sophonpanicb. Chin, 81. 85-86, B9. 

123.131.332 
South China Enterprise Co., 135 
S pad a for a, Prince Gutierez de. 313 
Special Operations Executive 

{$GE>.216.307 

Sportsystems.297. 327. 331, 33ft-34*l 

Standard Bank. 100, 544 

Standard and Chartered Bank, 81. 

100, 101, 114. 116,150. 157, 158, 220, 

278, 395 
Stanton. Edward. 29 
Steigcr, Sam. 334-335, 342 
Stephenson, William. 30S-;107, 329 
Stoker. Bram. 177 
Straight, Willard. 41 
Strong, Sir Kenneth. 163. 282 
Students for a Democratic Society, 

376 
Sun Company, 116 
Sun Life Assurance, 105 
SunYat-sen.148.149 
Suratt, John Harrison. 29 
Susai Sugahara, 127 
Swatow. 134 

Sweet-Escott. B.A.C., 156-158 
Swire family, 79. 140, 217, 338 
Swire. John Kidston. 10. 81. 100, 

140. 142, 154. 159 
John Swire and Sons, 141 , 154, 157 



Tammany Hall, 47, 274 
Tavistock Institute, 372, 376 
Tejapaibul. Udorn. 81. 85. 40 
TengHsiac-p'ing, 116 
Tennyson, Lord Alfred. 216 
Theosophy. 177, 182, 216 
Thompson. Jacob. 2S 
Thompson, Robert, 374 
Thompson, V., 90 

Thompson, William Boyce, 21S, 219 
Toronto Dominion Bank, 162. 166, 
168. 171 

Toronto Jockey Club, 336 

Torrio. John. 274-376 
Townshend family, 220. 282 
Toynbee, Arnold. 215, 366 
Toynbee Hall, 46 



Transcanada Transport Company, 
271 

Trebach. Arthur, 385 

Trcvelyan. Lord Humphrey, HI, 

152-153.154.158-159.164 
Triad Society. 10, 11, 14. 20, 26, 28, 

37.86 
Trizec Corporation, 162-163. 165, 

171.282 
Tryon. Lord. 33G 
Turner, Sir Mark, 100, 102, 140. 154, 

157. 158. 164. 217. 219. 3S7 

Turner, Sir Michael, 156. 159, 172 



U 



Union Bank of Israel. 104. 312 
United Autoworkcrs <UAW) . 18-19. 

341 
United Brands Company, 36. 37, 

339, 340. 341 
United Fruit Company. 36, 339. 341 
United Jewish Appeal. 338. 340 
U.S. Labor Party, v. 130, 342, 343, 

394 
University of Chicago, 46. 4S 



Valley Die Cast Association. 332 
Value Trend Holding Company. 286 
Vancouver. 80, 112, 146, 168. 169, 

170, 172 
Vanying Bank. 123 
Venceremos Brigade, 347, 346 
Vesco. Robert. 328. 388 
Villiers. George, 181 
Villiers, Edith, 182 
Villiers. Gerald Hyde. 21 7 
Vincent, John Carter. 143 
Vineberg. Phillip R. 283 
Viondi. Countess, 318 
VladimiroVt Peter, 142 
J.VontobelandCo..377 

W 

Wagner. Richard. 182 
Walker. Elisha. 292 
Wang Kwan-cheng, 118-119 

Wang Ping-nan, 151, 152. 169 

Warburg family. 45,26$, 270 
Warburg. James. 36S 
Warburg Pincus, 387 
Warburg, S.G.. 156,368 
Ward. Lady Mary, 385 



*.' 



406 



DOPE, INC. 



Warren Commission. 29 
Wathen.JPG. ,15? 
Watts. AJan, 370. 372 
Webb, HoruccS.. 2*)7, 340 
Weiss. Arnold. 335 
Wheelock Marten, 1 1 1 
Wheeler-Bennett, Sir John, 295-296 
Whit* Flag Communist Party. 133. 
134 

White, Harry Dexter. 148 

William Penn Foundation, 346-347, 
34S 

Williams. General Sir Fenwick, 29 
Wiseman. Sir Willium. 45 
Wolfe. R.D.JG7 
Wolff. Congressman Lester, 127 

Wolmarans. Fred A. , 122 

Wong Hong Han Company. 35 

Women's Christian Temperance 
Union. 45-47 



Wong Po-Shang. 10S 

World Wildlife Fund. 386 

Woodcock. Leonard, 342 

Woodhead.H.G.W.278 

Worlavington, Lord, 272 

World Trade Mart. New Orleans. 
301.302, 310 

XYZ 

York University, 146 

Young Italy, 2fi, 28. 33 

Yunnan Province. 06. 78. 84. 8ft, 128- 

129. 133 ' 
Zemurray. Samuel. 3fi. 341 
ZcriHi. Anthony, 232, 33] 
Zigiotto. Giuseppe. 317 
Zionist Organization of Canada, 

281 
Zwillman, Abner "Longle/ 1 274 



» 



r 



The New 

Benjamin Franklin House 

Publishing Company, Inc. 



$5.00 



i 



DOPE, INC. 

Britain's Opium War against the U.S. 

by a U.S. Labor Party Investigating Team 

"In the war against drugs, as in all warfare, the essential point of a winning 

strategy is to strike the adversary's command structure while shattering his 

in-deplh potentials for continued warfighting. No book could include every 

relevant detail of the drug network; the essential thing done here is to mark 

out the enemy's deployments and resources, for the purpose of crushing him 

with the aid of assaults on his most vulnerable flanks. After the war has been 

won, the courts and the historians will fill in the numerous details we have left 

out of account here.** 

— Lyndon H. FaRouche, Jr. 

Chairman, L.S. Labor Partv 



; 



■ 



4 

J 



i 



A' 



"Intriguing allegations ... not being ignored. 'It's got to be taken seriously/ 
says one HongKong and Shanghai bank official. " 

— Business Week 






i 



"Have you presented this evidence to the Justice Department for criminal 
prosecution yet?'* 

— Steuart L. Pittman 

Senior Partner in the law firm representing 

Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 



"DOPF, INC. is a book of outstanding importance. It tells the history of a 
political strike against the Cnited States in an undeclared war being waged by 

(Hreat Britain/" 

—Mitchell WerBell 

former security and intelligence consultant to the 

I'.S. government 



"I n fortunately, the democratic right to be heard in the IS demands that this 

flight of fancy be given due consideration, and the Hongkong bank's lawyers 

have had to formally deny the allegations and ask the Fed to refuse public 

hearings." 

Far Faster n Review 



Cover design by Alan Yue 



ISBN: 0-918388-08-2 



1 
1 



. J 



The New 

f 

Benjamin Franklin House 
Publishing Company, Inc. 






Britain's Opium War against the U.S. 

by a U.S. Labor Party Investigating Team 

r 

k in the war against drugs, as in all warfare, the essential point of a winning 
strategy is to strike the adversary's eommand structure while shattering his 
in-depth potentials for continued warfighting. No book could include every 
relevant detail of the drug network; the essential thing done here is to mark 
out the enemy's deployments and resources, for the purpose of crushing him 
with the aid of assaults on his most vulnerable flanks. After the war has been 
won, the courts and the historians will fill in the numerous details we have left 

out of account here." 

— Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. 
Chairman, U.S. Lahor Party 

"Intriguing allegations ... not being ignored. 'It's got to be taken seriously,' 
says one Hongkong and Shanghai bank official." 

— Business Week 

"Have you presented this evidence to the Justice Department for criminal 

prosecution yet?" 

— Steuart L. Pittman 

Senior Partner in the law firm representing 

Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 

"DOPE, INC. is a hook of outstanding importance. It tells the history of a 
political strike against the United States in an undeclared war being waged by 
Great Britain." 

—Mitchell WerBell 

former security and intelligence consultant to the 

U.S. government 

■ 

i 

* 

"Unfortunately, the democratic right to be heard in the US demands that this 
flight of fancy be given due consideration, and the Hongkong hank's lawyers 
have had to formally deny the allegations and ask the Fed to refuse public 
hearings." 

— Ear Eastern Review 



Cover design by Alan Yue 



ISBN; 0-918388-08-2 ', 



